Asif Zardari has not announced support for Khan, nor has he said Sharif cannot lead Pakistan. the press conference shown in the video is actually from 2019. Another clip with the same caption but a different press conference is actually from 2022.On 24 May 2023, Facebook page ‘Entertainment Videos’ posted a live video (archive) showing the former president and the co-chairperson of the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), Asif Ali Zardari, addressing a press conference.The video — which had over 520,000 views, 600 comments, and 500 shares as of writing time.
The video is not recent, nor does it have anything to do with the May 2023 crackdown by Punjab Police and they were not misbehaving and insulting an older women. It is, in fact, from 2019, when Imran Khan was the prime minister of Pakistan.On 20 May 2023, Abdulla Alamadi — a media consultant from Qatar whose Twitter bio says he is a “Columnist & Author” — posted a video (archive) showing a Punjab Police officer seemingly misbehaving with an old woman and captioned it as follows:“I don’t understand the conversation, but I didn't expect the tension among the Pakistani police to reach the point of insulting an elderly woman who relies on her walking stick to move. Where is the ethics of dealing with the elderly, especially women.
We found that the viral clip has been digitally altered by adding Kumar condemning the arrest of imran Khan as Akshay kumar was not condemn the arrest of imran khan. In the 13 seconds-long clip, Kumar can be heard supporting Khan and asking people to unite over Khan's arrest.In the video. Kumar can be heard saying that he is the company's brand ambassador. He can seen endorsing the ECG device of the company. A comparison between the keyframes of both the video proved that that the viral one has been digitally altered to add Kumar's audio about Khan's arrest.
imran khan is alive not dead and was presented in the apex court on 11 May 2023 amid tight security.Multiple media channels aired footage of Khan in which he can be seen walking to courtroom no 1 moments before the hearing resumed. It was also shared by PTI’s verified Twitter account.The Supreme Court has termed his arrest “unlawful” in the Al-Qadir Trust case and ordered his immediate release. A three-member bench comprising the CJP himself, Justice Athar Minallah and Justice Muhammad Ali Mazhar gave these directives.
Newschecker noticed that the letter had several grammatical errors, along with the odd note, which states that US ambassador Donald Blome, described as the only authority Khan could trust, will “supervise the terms and conditions”, raising our doubts.Letter is fabricated, no such agreement signed between detained ex-Pak PM Imran Khan, Pakistan government.
The news about Sri Lanka gifting two elephants to Pakistan has turned out to be false, no such evidences were found. Sri Lanka Honorary Consul Yasin Joya denied making a statement regarding Sri Lankan government’s willingness to gift two elephants to Pakistan.
A Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) details a potential programme to be created by eligible partners for the professional development of English teachers from non-mainstream institutions, novice English teachers, transgender youth, as well as Afghan teachers, students, and young professionals in Pakistan. Only $25,000-$75,000 — or 5-15%, respectively — of the total $500,000 budget for the programme is to be set aside for the third component that is focused on transgender youth in Pakistan. The State Department told Soch Fact Check in an email that “these funds will only be used for this purpose” as defined in the official NOFO.
The simon doull new zealand cricketer said I love my time in Pakistan it's not like living in jail. i also loved my time in India. Stop the hatred and vitriol towards one another please. And stop publishing this for your own agenda, you sad people,” his post read
scientists cannot predict earthquakes, experts say. No scientists have ever predicted a major earthquake, so there's no chance of earthquake In pakistan and india
there is a cricket stadium in Gwadar but it does not look anything like the one seen in a viral pictures so stadium in the image is not real is a concept art designed by a Mumbai city -based architecture firm. A picture of a very attractive looking cricket stadium has been doing the rounds on the social media.Those sharing the image have claimed that this stadium was built in Balochistan, Pakistan. "The most attractive cricket stadium of Balochistan, Pakistan one should visit and see the natural beauty of Gwadar," the user said while sharing the image. The image has been shared by several other users with the same claim. Gwadar or Gwadar is a port city in Pakistan and is located on the southwestern coast of Balochistan.

The man accused of blasphemy mohammad Issa is actually a Muslim man named Muhammad Waris, who was in his mid-30s and is not christian. The angry mob stormed the police station using a wooden ladder, dragged him out and beat him to death. After lynching, they were still not satisfied and tried to burn his body.” The police statement matched the visuals shared by journalist Shiraz Hassan on Twitter.aris had defaced pages of The Quran and had thrown them on the street. As soon as the police came to know of this, they took the accused into their custody. Following this, hundreds gathered outside the police station and forcefully entered the premise to take away the accused.
Shell Pakistan Ltd said on Wednesday that its foreign sponsor is planning to sell its entire 77.42 per cent stake in the oil marketing company (OMC).With a market share of 7.6pc in volumetric sales, Shell Pakistan remained the third largest player in the first 11 months of the fiscal year 2022-23. It claims to be the top lubricant supplier, even though verifiable consolidated data is difficult to find in that segment.Shell Petroleum Company Ltd, which is a subsidiary of Shell plc, is currently the single largest shareholder in the Pakistani firm with a stake of more than three-quarters. The general public owns 15.2pc shares while the rest is controlled by public-sector companies, banks and mutual funds etc.
Ahead of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s state visit to Washington, the joe Biden administration is pushing New Delhi to cut through its own red tape and advance a deal for dozens of US-made armed drones.India has long expressed interest in buying large armed drones from the United States. But bureaucratic stumbling blocks have hampered a hoped-for deal for SeaGuardian drones that could be worth $2 billion to $3bn for years.
The Saudi General Aviation Civil Aviation “GACA” security assistant team visited the Multan airport on Wednesday .They looked over the airport’s terminal building.
Led by lead Inspector Muhammad Al-Ajmi, the eight-member arrived in Lahore on June 13 in the second phase of its visits to Pakistan. The Directorate of Security (Regulatory) and Lahore Airport Administration welcomed the Saudi delegation.A spokesman for the CAA said that the Saudi security assistant team visited the Multan Airport where it was given a briefing.The Saudi Aviation security team reviewed the Airport Security Force (ASF) security search and security arrangements of the Nji Cargo Company.The Saudi delegation also reviewed the airport’s security perimeter and inspected the catering company’s security measures.The ‘GACA’ team started the second phase from Lahore by visiting the Allama Iqbal International Airport on Tuesday.
Sri Lankan military doctors have removed what is now recorded as the world’s largest kidney stone from a 62-year-old retired soldier.The stone removed from ex-sergeant Canisius College weighed 801 grams (28.25 ounces), more than five times the weight of an average male kidney, the army said.Coonge’s kidney stone measured 13.37 centimetres (5.26 inches) long, compared to an average kidney which is about 10 to 12 centimetres long.The removal of the world’s largest and heaviest kidney stone through a major surgery occurred on June 1 at the Colombo Army Hospital,” the military said in a statement.
pm shahbaz sharif on Wednesday reached Azerbaijan for a two-day official visit with an aim to boost bilateral ties . energy, banking, financial services and information technology sectors will be benefited.On his arrival at the Baku airport, the prime minister was received by First Deputy Prime Minister of Azerbaijan, Yaqub Eyyubov; Deputy Foreign Minister Elnur Mammadov; Azerbaijan’s Ambassador to Pakistan Khazar Farhadov and Pakistan’s Ambassador to Azerbaijan Bilal Hayee.This is PM Shahbaz first visit to Azerbaijan since assuming office, at the invitation of President Ilham Aliyev.The PM will pay a visit to mausoleum of Azerbaijan’s national hero Heydar Aliyev, today (June 15). He will also visit the monuments of martyrs.
former cricketer Shoaib Akhtar doesn't want to get remarried second time. During a recent guest appearance on Hafiz Ahmed’s podcast, Akhtar discussed how he met his wife and his thoughts on second marriages.The host asked him if he would remarry, to which the cricketer said that although Islam permits multiple marriages, he personally believes in the importance of remaining committed to a single partner. “One is enough. People can do it [get remarried] if they want to. I believe once you're attached to somebody and that somebody has left their house for you, then we should also leave many things for her and be nice and kind to her.”
He added, “Become an inspiration for your wife and you can only do that by having a strong character.”Akhtar recalled how he met his wife, Rubab Khan, revealing that their families had the opportunity to spend time with each other when they went for Hajj. It was during this time that his mother decided and expressed her desire to get Akhtar and Khan married. The cricketer explained that he had never refused any of her wishes, hence agreed to the marriage.
PM Shahbaz on Thursday met world leaders including Russian President Vladimir Putin .He also met Iran’s Ebrahim Raisi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in Samarkand, Uzbekistan.The premier arrived in Samarkand today on a two-day trip where he will attend the 22nd annual meeting of the Council of Heads of State (CHS) of the SCO.Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, Finance Minister Miftah Ismail and Defence Minister Khawaja Asif are also accompanying him. Uzbekistan PM Abdulla Aripov received the prime minister upon his arrival at the airport.On the first day of his visit, the premier met President Vladimir Putin on Thursday. The two leaders discussed bilateral ties and exchanged views on regional and international issues.During the meeting, Putin said that pipeline gas supplies to Pakistan were possible, revealing that necessary infrastructures were already in place, according to state-owned news agency RIA.
fake news led the lady doctor Dr Yasra Saqib and her family to suffer extreme mental trauma after being labelled as a blood-drinking individual like a vampire.According to reports, the concerned hospital issued a clarification regarding the viral post on social media and termed it ‘fake news’. The administration clarified that lady doctor Yasra Saqib was doing a house job at the hospital and she didn't drink human blood. It added that the lady doctor was not facing any complaints nor there was any evidence against her. The hospital said that fear and panic were spread amongst the nationals by sharing a fake story.
after the fake story went viral on social media, the doctors’ community, hospital administration and many citizens have taken a firm stand against the false story and demanded the government expose the black sheep who were involved in spreading the fake news.
Pakistan has completed the transfer of crude oil from a Russian ship that reached Karachi port with over 45,000 metric tons of oil, earlier on Sunday.
According to details, the transfer ande extraction of oil from a Russian ship to Karachi port was completed by the authorities safely as cyclone Biporjoy is coming closer to Pakistan’s coastal areas۔The Russian ship, Pure Point ship with 45,142 metric tons of oil was berthed at OP2، The second oil carrier will arrive at Karachi’s port from Russia next week.It is pertinent to mention here that earlier this week, the first ship carrying Russian oil has anchored at Karachi port.As per details, the ship brought 45,142 metric tons of crude oil to Pakistan. The ship which arrived before the cyclone was anchored at berth OP2.Experts said that the launch of shipping services will reshape trade relations between both countries, with immense business opportunities and the potential to extend bilateral trade up to US$20 billion.
The CTD Balochistan killed four alleged terrorists in Chaman balochistan, ARY News reported on Wednesday.According to CTD officials, four terrorists were killed who were involved in the attack on Muslim Bagh headquarters. The TTP and TJP terrorists were killed in an operation by the security forces.The spokesperson further said that the operation was carried out on the information provided by an arrested terrorist Ali Muhammad aka Chota Qadri. Explosives, arms, and ammunition were seized from the possession of the killed alleged terrorists. A car that was used in the Muslim Bagh attack was also confiscated from their possession.
The UN has assured full support to help Pakistan in dealing with the impacts of the approaching cyclone Biporjoy.The assurance was given by the UN Spokesperson Stephane Dujarric while responding to a question at the regular noon briefing in New York, the state-owned agency reported.The UN teams in India, Pakistan and other countries are tracking the storm and doing whatever they can to prepare for the aftermath of the storm, he said.‘Biporjoy 340 km away from Karachi’Arabian Sea Cyclone Biporjoy, which has now weakened into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm, will landfall between Sindh and India’s Gujarat coast on Thursday noon or evening.Cyclone Biporjoy has been at a distance of 340 km south- southwest of Karachi, 355 km south-southwest of Thatta and 275 km south-southwest of Keti Bandar, Met Office said.
FIA immigration has offloaded two passengers for travelling on fake documents to Canada Karachi airport.According to the details, two passengers including a woman was trying to travel to Canada from Jinnah International Airport, the passengers were asked to show documents by the vigilance team, upon doubts that he might be travelling with fake documents.The travel documents provided by the passengers were proven fake by Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) officials. 
The passenger was handed over to the FIA Anti-Human Trafficking Circle in Karachi for further investigation.
Google has not opened its first office in Pakistan. The pictures shared with the post are from Google’s store by SSZ Tech Pvt Ltd, an authorized reseller in Lahore.However, we did not find any authentic news reports that confirmed about Google opening its office in Islamabad.In the next step of investigation, Jagran New Media’s Senior Editor Pratyush Ranjan contacted Naveed Akbar, senior reporter of AAJ News in Pakistan to check the authenticity of the claims in viral images. Akbar shared with him a quote from Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) Spokesperson Khurram Mehran saying the information about Google’s office is fake
A video of monkeys swimming in a pool has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim it was filmed was shot in the Pakistani capital during a COVID-19 lockdown. The claim is about monkey swimming in marriot is false and is not from pakistan .it is from india.the same video was shared in Facebook posts with a caption in Spanish here, here and here stating the clip was filmed in Kenya. The same video was also shared in Portuguese with a claim that it shows a scene in Brazil.
PSL 8 has not been affected by the attack and will continue as scheduled, according to the Pakistan Cricket Board. A decision on the Asia Cup venue is expected in March 2023.A terrorist attack took place at the Karachi police chief’s office at Shahrah-e-Faisal on 17 February 2023, killing five people and injuring at least 18 but didn't effect PSL.
A morphed screenshot of an Instagram story by Indian cricketer Virat Kohli mocking Pakistan for losing the final T20 World Cup match against England is being shared on social media. BOOM found that the original Insta story by Virat Kohli is not abusing pakistan, he just congratulated England, and does not have any reference or expletives against Pakistan.
This viral video of zimbabwe's news anchor is a Ghanaian TV presenter , and is not making fun of Pakistan after Zimbabwe defeated Pakistan in T20 match . he hosts a news show called ‘The Real News’ on UTV Ghana. In the original video, he laughs while reading the names of football clubs during his news show. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.English, Fake News.This video doesn't show Zimbabwean news anchor laughing after Zimbabwe’s victory against Pakistan in T20 World Cup this video is from October 2020, and the person in the video is Akrobeto, a Ghanaian TV presenter who hosts a news show called ‘The Real News’ on UTV Ghana. In the original video, he laughs while reading the names of football clubs during his news show. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.Running a keyword search on the internet led us to an extended version of the viral video. This YouTube video titled ‘Akrobeto ‘Massacres’ Names Of Foreign Clubs As He Gives Fixtures From Bundesliga To Italian Serie A‘ was uploaded by UTV Ghana Online on 31 October 2020.In this video, Akrobeto can be seen reading the names of football clubs and mispronouncing them. At one point in the video, he laughs while reading the name of ‘Eintracht Frankfurt.’ This happens at the 0:50 mark in the video and is the same part that appears in the viral video. Clearly, this old video of Akrobeto is falsely being shared as the reaction of a Zimbabwean news anchor after Pakistan’s loss to Zimbabwe in a T20 World cup match.
Catch News published an article on August 8, 2019. which stated that the cricketer had been greeted with chants of 'boom boom Afridi' by locals in Baramulla, Kashmir . The 19 seconds clip iis of Pakistani News channel which has a video of people chanting the name of Pakistan cricketer Shahid Afridi ny saying 'Boom Boom Afridi' not dhoni.Among Indian news outlets the Hindustan Times reported on November 29, 2017 that when Dhoni was on a visit to Jammu and Kashmir as a chief guest of an army-sponsored cricket tournament in the valley, he was jeered with the chant.
Two senior police officers, privy to the developments, have confirmed to Geo Fact Check that the man, who has been accused of stealing a peacock from a top military official’s residence, is still under investigation and has not been sentenced to 10 years .Mubashir Hassan, the public relations officer of the inspector general police Punjab, said over the phone that while Abdullah has been arrested, his case is still being investigated.“Court proceedings have not yet started,” he explained, adding that those claiming Abdullah has been sentenced to ten years behind bars are “wrong”.Geo Fact Check also reached out to Waqas Haider, the spokesperson of the deputy inspector general investigation in Lahore.“For now only the process of identification is going on,” Haider wrote on WhatsApp, “He [Abdullah] is in judicial custody at Camp Jail, Lahore, for an identification parade.”
A wheat grain supplier and officials from the Punjab food department confirm that no such decision has been taken nor any such notification or graphic has been issued by the government so this claim is fake.While Amir Rauf Khawaja, the public relations officer at the department, told Geo Fact Check over the phone that the wheat crop can only be transported with a permit.“If [wheat] bags are caught being moved around without a permit the truck will be confiscated and a case initiated in a civil court,” he said, adding that thus there was no question of the government buying illegally transported wheat bags at a low price of Rs3,000 for 40 kg.Geo Fact Check also reached out to Rana Imran Jameel, a licensed food grain trader in Mianwali, Punjab. He further confirmed that neither has he nor the food grain market received such instructions.
More than 9000 PTI supporters and members have been arrested post the May 9 attack, show official documents. The arrest has been taken place from all over the pakistan. The arrest was resulted in result of spreading violence in society for imran khan's arrest.
There is no such law as the Army Secret Act in Pakistan, nor is there any law that allows the monitoring of WhatsApp groups in the country, three lawyers told Geo Fact Check and said The claim is false. A long block of text circulating on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp warns that Pakistan has enacted a new law, known as the Army Secret Act, under which citizens can be prosecuted for private messages critical of the Pakistan army.There is no such law as the Army Secret Act in Pakistan, nor is there any law that allows the monitoring of WhatsApp groups in the country, three lawyers t 
“No, there is nothing known as the Army Secret Act,” Asad Jamal, a Lahore-based civil rights lawyer, told Geo Fact Check over the phone. “There are laws called the Official Secrets Act [1923] and the Pakistan Army Act [1952].”The Official Secrets Act, 1923, is anti-espionage law, while the Army Act, 1952, allows for the trial of military personnel, and in some cases civilians, in military courts. jamal also confirmed that none of the above-mentioned laws permit the monitoring of private WhatsApp chats by law-enforcing authorities.There is, however, the Investigation for Fair Trial Act, 2013, he added. Under this, a valid reason needs to be presented and permission sought from a court in order to tap or monitor a person’s phone.“Otherwise any monitoring, surveillance or recording is illegal,” Jamal said.Nighat Dad, a lawyer and digital rights activist, also rubbished the claim of a new law, called the Army Secret Act, being rolled out in Pakistan.
Local revenue officials and property dealers estimate the price of the 458 kanals and 58 square feet of land, which was donated to theAL-Qadir University in 2019, to fall between Rs 100 million to nearly Rs 300 million. Hence, the claim that the land is worth less than Rs 10 million is incorrect.An official of the tehsil administration, who spoke to Geo Fact Check on the condition of anonymity, said that the land records of the Sohawa tehsil show that the land was bought for around Rs 40-Rs 50 million in 2019.“Over 458 kanals of land was purchased from several sellers,” added the official, over the phone, “Yes, it is barren but it is connected to the Grand Trunk (GT) road, so it cannot be less than Rs 10 million.”
The aircraft set on fire on 9 May was a replica of a F-6 fighter jet and was not flown by honored Pakistani pilot M.M.Alam. it is still displayed as a monument in Mianwali, Punjab.official also said that the late M.M. Alam's fighter jet is still at the PAF Museum in Karachi, Sindh.“This is absolutely wrong,” one official confirmed Fact over the phone, on the condition of anonymity and said “There is a Pakistan Air Force Museum on Shahrah-e-Faisal in Karachi, where the [historical] fighter aircraft F-86 Sabre is exhibited.”
trucks were legally transporting sugar and cement across the Torkham border into Afghanistan on April 18.Mohib Khan, the assistant collector of exports of the Pakistan Customs, posted at Torkham border, told over the phone that five trucks, two of cement and three of sugar, were parked near an under-construction bridge when they were hit by a landslide.The report also states that the five trucks, two of cement and three of sugar, were scanned and declared to be “normal”.As per the document, the Sindh High Court has allowed 32 sugar mills in Sindh to export 1,500 metric ton of sugar each.
there were 4 bodies on the rooftop of Punjab Nishtar Hospital, not 200 or 500.The report states that as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs), issued by the Home Department of Punjab in 2014, the police were required to bring unidentified bodies to a public hospital for post-mortem. After which, the bodies were handed over to the hospital's anatomy department for teaching purposes.All four bodies, states the report, were either foul smelling, decaying, or full of maggots, which meant that they were not in a condition to be used later for teaching.“The security guards instead of placing the dead bodies in the purpose-built rooms constructed on the rooftop …for putrefaction, placed the same on the rooftop openly,” the seven-page report reads, adding that the security guards overlooked standard guidelines and showed negligence.
Ruet-e-Hilal Committee have only 21 employees not 3,400 and none of them receive a salary, confirm officials. While the yearly budget of Committee members is Committee is between Rs3 million to Rs 5 million, not Rs7 billion.Abdul Qudoos, director of the research and reference wing of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Interfaith Harmony, under which the Ruet-e-Hilal Committee operates, told Geo Fact Check that there is a general section in the ministry which deals with the Ruet-e-Hilal Committee and the Quran section.“This section consists of an officer, a staff, a typist and an assistant,” Qudoos said.In addition to these four employees, the Ruet-e-Hilal Committee has 21 central members, including Islamic scholars and officials from the Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission (SUPARCO), Ministry of Science and Ministry of Climate Change, the Ministry of Religious Affairs officials told Geo Fact Check.
The Netherlands' Ministry of Education k that the photo circulating online regarding asif zardari is true and is from their textbook of a four-year secondary vocational education program in the country.The spokesperson for the ministry said that the chapter was from an old school textbook for 16-year-old students, enrolled in the four-year program. The textbook features a news article on the Pakistani ex-president for a class discussion.“This is an older textbook, which refers to a news article of that time,” he told Geo Fact Check via WhatsApp, “It’s very normal to discuss news items of all sorts in classrooms, especially in subjects such as citizenship and social sciences, to which this book refers to.”The spokesperson explained that in the Netherlands, publishers of school books are responsible for the contents of the books, not the Dutch government, adding that the publisher of this particular book has informed the ministry that the textbook is being reviewed for a new edition, which will be rolled out next year.“If articles are outdated or do not display the current facts, they will be replaced,” he said As per a Google translation of the chapter, it states that Zardari, the former president of Pakistan, has been arrested for corruption and that he and his sister are suspected of money laundering.The chapter further reads that Zardari has served time in prison and is known as ‘Mister 10 percent’ because of the payments he collected on government contracts.Besides Asif Ali Zardari, the three-time former prime minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif has also been mentioned in the article.


The District Education Authority in Gujranwala, Punjab, which issued the notification, has confirmed that it is indeed authentic. As per the official notification, dated March 20, all public and private school students in the Gujranwala district have been instructed to learn and educate students about the accomplishments of the Pakistan Army.Maroof Ahmad, the chief executive officer at the District Education Authority in Gujranwala, told Geo Fact Check over the phone: “Absolutely. We [the District Education Authority] have issued this notification. It was only valid till March 23 [the Pakistan Day].”“We want to speak in favour of our institutions,” he added, “The older kids have to later find jobs and when officers from the army visit our schools they [the officers] can motivate them [the students].”Two public schools in the Gujranwala district also confirmed that they had received the notification, but added that the program did not discontinue on March 23.
Abdul Shakoor, the headmaster of the Government Boys High School No 2 in the Nowshera Virkan tehsil of Gujranwala, told Geo Fact Check over the phone, that since no specific time period was mentioned in the official letter so the administration is continuing to teach students about the Pakistan Army every day.While Habib Ahsan, a senior subject specialist at the Government Higher Secondary School in Gujranwala, and Afzaal Butt, the principal of the private Dar-e-Arqam school, also said they are still implementing the orders passed by the District Education Authority.
It is true, the chief justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan at present earns a salary of over Rs 1.7 million monthly, including perks and privileges.A senior official at the ministry of law and justice told Geo Fact Check over the phone, on the condition of anonymity, that the chief justice takes home Rs1,024,324 per month, while each judge of the top court receives Rs967,638.“These salaries are applicable from July 2021 and are the same at present,” he went on.Separately, the judges of the Supreme Court, including the chief justice, are also entitled to a monthly Superior Judicial Allowance of Rs428,040, the official told Geo Fact Check.Other monthly perks include 600 litres of petrol and two 1,800cc chauffeur-driven vehicles for a judge, while the chief justice is allotted a 2,400cc vehicle. Then there is Rs68,000 for house rent and Rs8,000 daily travel allowance if they go out of the city.Another official, privy to the information, who also did not want to be named, confirmed that a judge of the Supreme Court is paid a sum of Rs69,035 per month for medical. However, none of the officials could confirm the exact amount disbursed for electricity and telephone to a judge.
This claim is true that three police officers have confirmed that three police officers were suspended for taking selfie with PTI’s Zartaj Gul. Mubashar Hussain, the spokesperson of the Capital City Police Officer (CCPO) Lahore, told Geo Fact Check, over the phone: “Yes. This man is suspended.”Hussain further explained that the reason for the cop’s suspension is “negligence from duty”.While a police officer at the Ghaziabad police station, Sajjad Ur Rehman, also told Geo Fact Check over the phone that Asghar Nawaz Sial, the assistant sub-inspector, had been removed from active duty for now.He added that he took the picture on March 13, the day the PTI took out a political rally.“A selfie has become such a big crime,” Sial said. “It was not a sin [to take a picture]. I don't know how this [photo] became viral.”Geo Fact Check also contacted Awais Shafiq, the SP Lahore Cantt, but he refused to comment on the issue. Geo Fact Check has also seen the orders of Sial’s suspension.
Three police officials in Quetta confirmed that the transgender community in Quetta has indeed been restricted from visiting certain public areas post-midnight.Rizwan Ali, a police official at the Quetta civil lines police station, told Geo Fact Check, over the phone, that a restriction has been imposed.“Our senior [police] officials reviewed the situation,” he said, “They have ordered the transgenders [community] not to leave their homes after midnight. It is to prevent obscenity from spreading in the city”.This was also confirmed by another cop, Saeed Muhammad, at the civil lines police station.Geo Fact Check also contacted the Station House Officer (SHO) Mittha Khan at the Civil Lines police station. “This [news] is true,” he said, over the phone.“Our young population is being ruined,” he claimed, “They [transgenders] stand on roads and spread obscenity.”As per details, the transgender community has been barred from the following areas after 12am, namely Jinnah road, Koyla roundabout, and the railway station in the city.
A press release issued by the government-run Pakistan Medical Council confirmed that medical graduated doctors are no longer required to sit for the National Licensing Examination and cancelled them. The PM&DC adds that this was a long-standing demand of the medical community.The press release, however, stated that students who have completed their undergraduate degrees from foreign universities will still have to sit for the National Registration Examination.Hina Shaukat, the chief public relations officer at the PM&DC, told Geo Fact Check over the phone, that this was already the practice [prior to 2020].“They [the students] were selected and checked through a proper procedure before they were registered. They did not have to sit for the NLE exams then,” she explained, “As they had come from colleges that are already recognised.”Then in September 2020, the PM&DC was replaced by the Pakistan Medical Commission (PMC) by the then Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government through an act of the parliament. Under the new law, the exam was made mandatory for Pakistani medical students to obtain a license.“Students were protesting against the NLE test,” Shaukat said, “Because students were saying that we already have to sit through a number of comprehensive tests like the Medical & Dental College Admission Test (MDCAT) before graduating.”
government of punjab which came to power on January 23, has not made any decision to allow kite-flying activities. “No such decision has been taken on lifting the ban on basant” said ministry of information.He further added that a meeting of the Punjab caretaker cabinet was held on February 14, where it was decided to celebrate Jashan-e-Baharan (spring festival) in the province."But no decision was taken regarding the celebration of Basant," he wrote.. Mir also shared a link of a news report which stated that Mohsin Naqvi, the caretaker chief minister of Punjab, will take strict action against those who violate the kite flying ban.As for the video circulating on TikTok, the footage of private news channels is from December 2018, when Fayaz-ul-Hassan Chohan was the minister for information in Punjab. Chohan had then announced that the government would lift the ban on kite flying.However, a few days later the announcement was challenged in the Lahore High Court, after which the then-Punjab government withdrew its decision Basant, the kite flying festival, was banned in 2005.
The service fee for a new or renewal of a Pakistani passport has not been increased to 70,000. it is confirmed by the government-run Directorate General Immigration and Passport department.Yawar Hussain, the director general of the Islamabad-based Directorate General Immigration and Passport, told Geo Fact Check that the news circulating on social media was incorrect. “We do not plan to increase the fee right now either,” Hussain added.As per the official document shared, the charges for a machine-readable 36-page passport, valid for five years, is Rs3,000 and for 10 years is Rs4,500.Even for a 100-page passport, made on an urgent basis, the amount does not exceed Rs18,000.
The picture of the Russian president Vladimir Putin was taken on June 14, 2016, in Moscow, where he can be seen reading books about Russia, not about Imran Khan.A reverse image search on Google reveals that in 2016 Putin visited the Russian Academy of Sciences, where he was presented with two books. One book was about the development of Russian civilization and the other about the theory of population growth. Both can be seen in the photo.
The government-run Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) is neither probing the bank details of Tariq Jamil nor has it sealed any of his bank accounts in Pakistan. it is confirmed by two separate officials of the agency. When contacted about the allegations, the public relations department of the FIA told that the agency’s cybercrime wing probes bank accounts.“I have spoken to the cybercrime department, they are saying there is nothing as such,” the official said, over the phone, asking not to be named. a senior FIA official based in Lahore, Punjab, who further confirmed that the news doing the rounds on social media was false, adding that there was no ongoing inquiry against Jamil either.“It is a lie 100%,” he told Geo Fact Check, on the condition of anonymity, “We have not even touched his bank accounts.”While Jamil’s eldest son, Yousaf Jamil, also told Geo Fact Check that the news was incorrect. He added that Jamil had returned to Pakistan and was no longer in Canada.
More than 800,000 Pakistanis have migrated out of the country in the year 2022, which is the highest since 2016 and six years.According to the Bureau of Emigration and Overseas Employment, a department of the state which regulates overseas employment, there has been a nearly 200% increase in Pakistanis who left the country in 2022 from the year 2021. 
Of 832,339 people who emigrated, 90,000 were skilled manpower, including doctors, engineers, information technology experts, accountants, agriculturists, managers and others. 
While 799,507 went to the Middle East, including 514,909 to Saudi Arabia, 128,477 to UAE, 82,380 to Oman, 57,999 to Qatar, 13,653 to Bahrain and 2,089 to Kuwait.The majority of the workforce moved out from Punjab, therefore 460,302, followed by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where 225,272 left.
Three officials of the Pakistan Railways confirmed that the bogies were operational , ran for 2,500 kilometres in the country and are not faulty.However, some modifications were made to ensure further security for passengers, the officials added. These modifications were funded by China.Shahid Aziz, the additional general manager mechanic at the state-owned Pakistan Railways confirmed that the bogies were up and running.“These [bogies] travelled 2,500 kilometres from Karachi to Peshawar to Lahore to Faisalabad and then to Khanewal,” Aziz said, “There is no issue at all of not being operational.”The official added that one concern raised by Pakistani authorities with China was that the guard, who sits in the last bogie of the train, should also have the privilege to stop the train in case of any untoward incident, such as a robbery or a fire.
Travel agents and airlines’ staff confirm that in these days due to winter vacations at schools, airfare did jack up to Rs80,000.He further said the ticket prices went up to Rs80,000 around December 22 and 23.An employee at the travel agency, Sky Travel and Tours in Islamabad, who asked not to be named, also confirmed that in the last days of the year prices of one-way tickets from Islamabad to Karachi, of private airlines and the PIA, shot up to as high as Rs45,000 and even Rs55,000, during peak season which started after December 22.Mehran Malik, from the reservation department of the private airline, Serene Air, also confirmed that fares increased to Rs 36,000, one way from Islamabad to Karachi
two officials confirmed that no such arrests have been made and neither has frog meat been recovered ,as this is a fake rumour. Umair Hassan, the director of public relations at the government-run Punjab Food Authority, that no one from their team had caught any such person.“This is not even in our knowledge,” he added. “No such thing has been conducted by the food authority.”Mubashar Hussain, the public relations officer of Lahore Police, said that the claims being shared on Twitter were “fake”.“There is no such news,” he added.As for the image being shared in the tweets allegedly of frog meat, Geo Fact Check did an advance search for the image. The picture was taken by photographer Douglas Peebles on October 5, 2016 and is from the Sa Dec Market, Mekong River in Vietnam. It is not from Pakistan.
Video of mouse nibbling on cake is not from Balochistan and has confirmed that the “video is from some meeting.”the secretary information Balochistan, also told Geo Fact Check that the video was not from Balochistan “but from somewhere in India”.
“Pakistan did not win XII FIP Polo World Championship held in the United States in November” an official of the Association confirmed“But it did defeat Mexico in a position match.”The official further clarified that it was in fact Spain that won the XII FIP Polo World Championship.The United States Polo Association, which organised the tournament, had also posted on its official website that Spain defeated the United States 11-10 in overtime and took home the trophy.The United States Polo Association also tweeted about Spain winning the tournament on November 8.
The drug, Tzield, does not cure or prevent diabetes, it only delays the onset of full-blown type 1 diabetes for around two years.This treatment was approved by the United States’ Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on November 17, after clinical trials.“Today, the US Food and Drug Administration approved Tzield injection to delay the onset of stage 3 type 1 diabetes in adults and pediatric patients eight years and older who currently have stage 2 type 1 diabetes,” a press statement by the FDA read.Type 1 diabetes, the statement further stated, is a disease that occurs when the immune system attacks and destroys the cells that make insulin, adding that type 1 diabetes is usually diagnosed in children and young adults.
This video of thousand of muslims offering prayer is not from the Qatar football world cup 2022. The footage is in fact three years old.It was posted by the office of the president of Tatarstan, a republic of Russia, on May 25, 2019, with the title: “The 7th regional iftar
The news circulating on social media about the Law amended to allow private individuals to use KP's helicopter is true.The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly has drafted a bill to amend the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Ministers (Salaries, Allowances and Privileges) Act 1975. A copy of the bill is available with Geo Fact Check.The bill, dated November 2, is titled, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Ministers (Salaries, Allowances and Privileges) (Second Amendment) Act 2022. As per the proposed legislation, a new section will be added to the original law, which states: The chief minister may allow a minister, advisor or special assistant to the chief minister, public servant or government servant to use an aircraft or helicopter of the government at government expense.Any official aircraft or helicopter, subject to availability and with prior approval of the chief minister, can be used for private purposes, on payment of charges at the rate determined by the government from time to time.
the Punjab assembly’s standing committee of cabinet on finance and development has directed that Rs989 million be spent to purchase 93 luxury car like fortuners SUV'S for bureaucrats in the province.of the 93 vehicles, 40 Toyota Fortuner SUVs will be bought for Deputy Commissioners in Punjab, at the cost of Rs 533,600,000. While 12 Corolla X will be purchased for members of the board of revenue and 41 Hilux 4x4 will be handed over to additional deputy commissioners (revenue). A total of Rs 989,116,000 will be spent to acquire all 93 vehicles.he notification has been forwarded to Indus Motors in Lahore “through Toyota Gujrat, Motors”, it reads.
the principal at the Government Jinnah Islamia College that he issued a notification making it mandatory for students to hear and attend Imran Khan’s talk.“The DPI called a meeting on October 24 of principals [of colleges] from the whole district of Sialkot,” Professor Bukhari said, “The notification you have is correct.”The principal added that they were told that Imran Khan will be speaking and if students want to attend they should. “My signatures are on the notification, which was issued in light of the DPI meeting,” he added.A professor of the Government Jinnah Islamia College, who asked not to be named, also confirmed that the college had issued a notification to the staff to ensure that students attend.However, Dr Ashiq Hussain, the director at DPI, continues to deny that any such notification has been issued.
Child in Quetta died due to pneumonia not polio vaccine. The doctors confirmed “When the child was brought to the hospital she had severe pneumonia not polio,”.Shah then requested people to stop spreading false news about the deadly virus. “Such [false news] has a big impact on the polio [vaccination drive],” he added.Polio is a disabling and life-threatening disease, which has been eradicated in most of the world except Pakistan and Afghanistan. This year to date, 20 polio cases have been reported in Pakistan, up from just one case reported in 2021.
the national health insurance program, known as the Sehat Card by Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government, has not been suspended in any part of Pakistan.The Sehat Card was rolled out by the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf first in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and then in the rest of Pakistan while they were in power between 2018 and 2022. Even though the PTI government was removed from office, through a vote of no confidence in this year, the incoming government has chosen to continue the health cover.The health facilitate officer at Karachi’s Dow University Hospital told Geo Fact Check that the Sehat Card was functional. “All patients who visit the hospital for cardiac, orthopedics, oncology, and neurosurgery are treated under the health card program,” she said over the phone.
Shaukat Khanum Hospital is the second organisation in the world to be given “Enterprise Accreditation” by the Joint Commission International.The Joint Commission International (JCI), headquartered in Illinois, United States, accredits and certifies healthcare organisations around the world that meet high standards of quality and patient safety. One type of accreditation that it awards is known as “The Gold Seal of Approval” which, as the social media users pointed out, has been achieved by more than 1,000 organizations across the world.In Pakistan, five healthcare organisations and hospitals have achieved JCI gold seal of approval, including Shaukat Khanum Hospital. In fact, Shaukat Khanum received the gold seal in 2018 and 2019.But what Imran Khan is referring to is “Enterprise Accreditation”, a new type of accreditation rolled out by the JCI. Khan has rightly stated that it has only been awarded to two organizations in the world to date.
Mir Muhammad Shah, media officer at the national assembly, confirmed that No salaries have been disbursed to PTI MNAs since resignation. He that the “PTI MNAs’ salaries have not been released since the time they resigned.” Saeed Bhatti, the section officer of finance and accounts at the national assembly, also confirmed that salaries have not been disbursed since the resignation.Around 125 PTI members of the national assembly resigned on April 11, after Imran Khan was removed from power through a vote of no-confidence.Geo Fact Check also reached out to Amjid Ali Khan, a former PTI lawmaker from Mianwali. Khan said that from the time he resigned to date “no allowances, no salaries” have been disbursed.
Further, PTI’s Zaidi shared his bank statement with Geo Fact Check which showed that he received his last salary from the national assembly on March 31 in the amount of Rs231,634. “There have been no transactions to date after that,” he told Geo Fact Check.
There is a False posts blaming Muslim railway employee Mohammed Sharif Ahmed for deadly India train crash share is unrelated. there is no employee called Mohammed Sharif Ahmed working at Bahanaga railway station, according to JK Nayak, an official at the terminal.
PM praising Indian Congress is a fake tweet and is not praising and congratulating karnataka . The fabricated tweet appears to play on accusations from Congress critics that the party is pro-Muslim, pro-Pakistan and anti-Hindu.The SDPI (Social Democratic Party of India) is the political wing of the Popular Front of India, an Islamist movement that was banned in 2022 for alleged terrorism links.
Video shows avalanche in northeastern India, not resort in Pakistan.A video of an avalanche hitting people has been viewed more than a hundred thousand times in social media posts that falsely claim the accident occurred in Pakistan. The video was in fact filmed in northeastern India, near its border with China. Similar videos of the avalanche were posted weeks earlier by Indian news organisations.
Locked grave photo from India falsely shared as Pakistan 'anti-rape gate', as it is from india not from pakistan. A photo of a grave with a padlocked gate has surfaced on social media, with posts shared tens of thousands of times falsely claiming it shows a Pakistan cemetery where a woman's burial place was locked to prevent necrophilia. While cases of the crime have been reported in Pakistan, the photo was taken in Hyderabad, India. A local mosque representative said the gate was installed to prevent other families burying their loved ones in the same plot.
Beloved Pakistani star Mahira Khan Said that she had survived a serious accident while riding a horse.he expressed her profound connection to the majestic mountains, which reminded her of the vast potential of humanity and the humility it brings. Amidst her reflections, Mahira took a moment to express her sincere gratitude to the individuals who had provided support and care during her accident, emphasizing how thankful she was to be alive.
The video Khawaja Asif's daughter went viral is fake and not true , some social media users debunked the picture which was reportedly from a dance party from another country.As the trend got viral, several users also slammed political rivals for stooping to a new low as these leaks emerged with the turn of the calendar and both PTI and PML-N were targeted. Apparently, it was shared to dent the political standing of Khawaja Asif, one of the most senior members of PML-N, and the ruling party as they have remained critical of Imran Khan’s personal life.
the Pakistan Railway spokesperson said all the coaches from china are fully compatible with the railway system of the country and are not faulty . “These coaches were thoroughly inspected after which they were approved to run on a trial basis. After successful trial all coaches are now ready for commercial use,”
The development comes hours after unverified reports of Dr. Aafia’s death went viral on social media as this is not the first time for such hoaxes. These all are fake rumours as Dr Aafia Siddiqui is alive not passed away.Express News reported that Dr Aafia Siddiqui, a US citizen of Pakistani origin, has not been in contact with any of her family members for the last couple of years. She also earlier refused to meet the consul general for processing her mercy petition. Siddiqui, who allegedly went missing before she was discovered in Afghanistan, was assaulted by an inmate in prison last year.
In a major development, the Council of Islamic Ideology (CII) has granted permission and allowed women to perform Hajj pilgrimage without a mehram.The CII's decision is based on the Fiqah-e-Jafria, Maliki, and Shafi'i schools of thought, which acknowledge the provision in Shariat allowing women to undertake the annual Islamic pilgrimage independently.The Ministry of Religious Affairs sought the CII's opinion on this matter, and the council spokesperson explained that if a woman's parents or husband give their consent, she can perform Hajj without a mehram; however, according to the Hanafi and Hanbali schools of thought, a woman still requires a mehram for Hajj.
A TikToker girl has been allegedly gang-raped by three people in the Matiari district of Sindh.Reports in local media quoting sources said the victim was lured by some men as she visited New Saeedabad tehsil of Matiari district where they sexually assaulted her.Following the heinous incident, the victim girl approached the police and alleged that a man named Waqas Mallah and his friends gang-raped her.A case has been lodged against the nominated suspects while all men are still at large. Meanwhile, the victim girl lamented the lack of action from police and even mentioned that she is receiving threats from the culprits.
Babar Azam, the captain of Pakistan, fell to fifth place in the International Cricket Council (ICC) rankings after losing and dropping one position in the category for Test batsmen.According to the most recent ICC ranking update, Australian hitters hold the top three spots, with Marnus Labuschagne at the top, Steve Smith at second, and Travis Head at third.Smith gets 885 rating points, compared to 903 for Labuschagne. After their tons in the ICC World Test Championship Final against India at The Oval, Head has 884 points.
Controversial Youtuber Adil Farooq Raja, a retired major of the Pakistan Army was released hours after being detained by the British police, his lawyer said on Wednesday.Raja was detained by Scotland Yard from Luton earlier today.The Scotland Yard released him after questioning about his alleged involvement in incitement to violence through Youtube and other platforms for eight hours, solicitor Mehtab Aziz said in a statement.The former military man recently got his channel banned on video streaming platform for spreading misinformation.Adil Raja, a staunch supporter of ousted prime minister Imran Khan and a ruthless critique of Pakistan’s military establishment, was booked in several cases in Pakistan related to inciting Pakistanis to rebel against the state.
Yamaha Motors has once more introduced a plan with no markup programme for clients as part of its simple installment bike purchase programme.Yamaha is now providing up to a nine-month payment plan with no markup; customers can extend up to three years, but there will be a markup.Additionally, the processing fee is charged. Users must pay 2.50 percent, 3.50 percent, and 5.50 percent, respectively, for the 3-month, 6-month, and 9-month payments plan.
A district and sessions court in Islamabad sent controversial TikToker Sundal Khattak to jail on judicial remand for leaking hareem shah videos rejecting police request for her physical remand.Media reports suggest that Federal Investigators presented Sandal Khattak before a local court in federal capital and requested for a five-day physical remand.Khattak’s counsel opposed the physical remand, and following the conclusion of the arguments, the court turned down the physical remand request and sent the accused to Adiala Jail on judicial remand.
FIA held Khattak on Monday after the court dismissed her bail in the case as Hareem Shah approached authorities after her private videos went viral on the internet.
Pakistan's first air taxi service will be launched on June 18 and the service will be launched by a private company. it has got the DA-40 series single engine aircraft on lease for this purpose. An official of the company said the plane has the capacity to accommodate four passengers, adding that an app will be launched for people to book the service.We will also begin offering Ariel Taxi service throughout Pakistan. Now business persons, professionals, doctors, lawyers, politicians, celebrities, tourists and anyone can avail costs-effective Ariel Taxi service for cross-country destinations,” the company announced via Facebook.
The National Operations Centre for Polio Eradication has confirmed that polio virus was found in a sample of the environment from karachi city. The sample, which was taken on May 15, proved positive, making it the first time this year that this has happened.The detection of the poliovirus in the environmental sample has caused the health officials to get concerned.Dr. Shahzad Asif Baig voiced his worries and emphasised the urgency of taking urgent measures to stop the virus's spread.
The discovery of the positive environmental sample serves as a reminder that the virus still poses a serious threat to public health even though Pakistan has only recorded one case of polio so far this year.The southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa districts have had the most success in keeping the poliovirus confined.
The Lahore High Court (LHC) on Monday imposed ban of all kinds of forced child labour, including their hiring as domestic help.
Popular Pakistani TV host Aftab Iqbal has joined the long list of media persons who have left Pakistan in recent days.Aftab Iqbal wrote in a tweet, "For all wondering if I have left the country for good. NO! I have shows in the UAE and the UK. Summer is all scheduled with these events. See you soon again Pakistan."The move comes days after he was arrested in connection with the attack on the Lahore Corps Commander's House on May 9 and was released shortly.
Police have arrested a man for allegedly killing three transgender persons after rape in Rawalpindi and Rahim Yar Khan.SSP Investigation Zunaira Azfar, addressing a press conference in Rawalpindi Police Lines, said the suspect was arrested from Rahim Yar Khan with the help of modern technology. She said the suspect, identified as Ali Hussain, used to make relations with the transgender persons and later killed them after sexually assaulting them. She said the suspect committed two identical crimes in limits of Sadiqabad police station in Rawalpindi in a period of two and half months, adding that he had killed a transgender person in Rahim Yar Khan in 2020.


A plane of the Qatar Airlines made an emergency landing at the Karachi airport after a woman gave birth mid-flight.An official of the Civil Aviation Authority said the flight was enroute to Manila, Philippines, from Doha, the capital city of Qatar when it received emergency call from the pilot, who sought permission for landing at the Jinnah International Airport.He said the foreign national woman, identified as Barmosello, gave birth to the baby during the flight, adding that they both mother and child had been shifted to hospital where they are said to be in stable condition. 


At least 11 people from a nomadic tribe, including a four-year-old boy, have been killed in an avalanche in Pakistan.The snow struck as the group crossed a mountainous area in the Shounter Pass with their goat herds.A further 25 people have been injured and a rescue operation is ongoing.Pakistan's Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif expressed grief over the deaths, and said incidents such as avalanches were increasing due to climate change.The avalanche happened in the early hours of Saturday in part of the pass that bridges the Astore district of the Gilgit Baltistan region to neighbouring Azad Kashmir, in Pakistan-administered Kashmir.
Pakistan’s Federal Investigation Agency says at least 209 people from pakistan and kashmir are among the victims of one the worst sea disasters in the greece boat tragedy. Information provided to the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) by families of missing passengers known to have boarded the boat that capsized off Greece’s coast suggests the death toll may be significantly higher than official figures.
police confirmed Islamist militants stormed natural gas and oil production energy plant in northwest Pakistan on Tuesday, killing six people .The attack by up to 50 militants took place at facilities run by MOL Pakistan Oil and Gas Company, a unit of Hungary's MOL, in Hangu district near the Afghan border, police official Irfan Khan said.Police said the militants targeted two wells, known as M-8 and M-10, with heavy weapons, including rocket-propelled grenades.
China, Pakistan and Iran held their first trilateral meeting on counter-terrorism in Beijing on Wednesday, the Chinese foreign ministry said in a statement.The three countries had "in-depth" exchanges on the regional counter-terrorism situation, and decided to hold the meeting on a regular basis, the ministry said.
The president of former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan's party was arrested in the eastern city of Lahore on 9 may 2023 Thursday on charges of corruption, a government official said.Pakistan is beset by political turmoil as Khan's party has faced a countrywide crackdown since his own arrest on May 9 for suspected graft sparked widespread protests that saw mobs ransacking state installations, including military assets.Pervez Elahi, president of Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaf party, joins a long list of key PTI leaders arrested in the security swoop to halt turmoil that has threatened to worsen instability in a country reeling from a crippling financial crisis.
In recent days, Imran Khan has cut an increasingly isolated figure just because of their political games as the army of pakistan destroys party. Since Pakistan’s former prime minister was released from jail, after a brief but explosive attempt to arrest him last month, his return has been marked by a mass exodus of the top leadership of his party, on a scale that has surprised even his critics.Late on Thursday night, Pervez Khattak, the former chief minister and defence minister, became the latest high-profile resignation from Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. He followed in the path of Khan’s former finance minister, his former human rights minister, his former information minister and his former shipping minister, who all stepped down from senior posts or left PTI altogether in recent weeks. Dozens of other federal and state ministers have followed suit.
Tracking data suggests an overcrowded boat that sank off the Greek coast last week with the feared loss of hundreds of lives had not moved for several hours before it capsized. it also contradicting accounts from the Hellenic coastguard.As Pakistani police said on Monday they believed up to 800 people were onboard, a Guardian analysis of ship movements supplied by the MariTrace service indicated two vessels – the Lucky Sailor and the Faithful Warrior – stood by or circled round the stationary trawler for at least four hours.
Pakistan's army says militants attacked a security checkpoint in the country's northwest triggering a shootout that 3 soldiers and 3 dead.
Militants attacked a security checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan, along the border with Afghanistan, triggering a shootout that left three soldiers and three militants dead, the army said Sunday.Four militants were also wounded, the military said in a statement.The overnight shootout early Saturday took place in the Miran Shah tribal area of North Waziristan district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, a former stronghold of the Pakistani Taliban, a militant group also known as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan or TTP. The Pakistani army carried out search operations to hunt down those responsible for the attack. They seized a cache of ammunition from the dead militants.


Hamid mir said i am not a big fan of Imran Khan. I have long criticised Pakistan’s former prime minister, but now it is becoming difficult to do so. There is a de facto ban on referring to him in the media, .Hamid Mir further said we are no longer allowed to mention his name or show his picture on Pakistani TV channels .They also not not allowed to interview him or air his statements. This is the result of a series of directives issued by the media regulator.As prime minister, Imran Khan tried to turn Pakistan from a struggling democracy into an autocracy. His successor, Shehbaz Sharif, appears to be following in his footsteps.
Police confirmed at least 11 killed including one women and four children in the disaster near the Shounter Pass in northern Pakistan,.At least 11 people have been killed after an avalanche hit members of a nomadic tribe as they crossed a mountainous area in northern Pakistan, the country’s disaster management agency has said. “Such incidents are rising in Pakistan due to the impact of climate change,” Pakistan’s Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif said in a statement on Saturday. Pakistan, which in recent years has faced record monsoon rains and glacier melt in northern mountains, is among the top 10 countries at risk of natural disasters due to rising temperatures.
Rains and hail hit the Bannu, Lakki Marwat, and Karak districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on Saturday, senior rescue officer Khateer Ahmed said. Heavy rains pounded Pakistan’s northwest regions collapsing houses and killing at least 25 people. Another 145 people were injured as uprooted trees knocked down electrical transmission towers.Officials were working to provide emergency relief to the wounded, Ahmed said. Last month, about a dozen people, including women and children, were killed by an avalanche during unusual snowfall in the summer.
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have higher rates of diabetes than whites, and are prone to developing Type 2 diabetes at younger ages . They also have lower body weights than the general U.S. population. Among Asian subgroups, the risk of diabetes is especially high among South Asians, Filipinos and Pacific Islanders. A group of Asian American researchers are trying to figure out why – and design programs like this to bring down the rates. They're digging for root causes and better solutions while pushing for their communities to make healthier adjustments now. Here's some of what they've learned can make a difference.
India’s presidency of the G20 group of leading nations has become mired in controversy China and Saudi Arabia boycotted a meeting staged in Kashmir. the first such gathering since India unilaterally brought Kashmir under direct control in August 2019. The meeting, a tourism working group attended by about 60 delegates from most G20 countries taking place from Monday to Wednesday, required a large show of security at Srinagar international airport.In 2019 the Indian government stripped the disputed Muslim-majority region of semi-autonomy and split it into two federal territories in an attempt to integrate it fully into India.


The city with the highest air pollution levels last year was Lahore in Pakistan. The average PM2.5 concentration there for 2022 was 97.4 μg/m³. For comparison, WHO recommends PM2.5 levels of 10 μg/m³ for safe and healthy breathing. Hotan, China, takes the second slot, followed by Bhiwadi, India, in third. India occupies six places in the top 10 alone. Like most other countries on this list, India’s industrial production has had disastrous consequences for its air quality.
More than 100,000 people had been evacuated in India and Pakistan ahead of the expected landfall Thursday of a fierce cyclone .it devastate homes and tear down power lines.Powerful winds, storm surges and lashing rains were forecast to hammer a 325-kilometer (200-mile) stretch of coast between Mandvi in India's Gujarat state and Karachi in Pakistan.India's Meteorological Department predicted the storm would hit near the Indian port of Jakhau late Thursday, warning of "total destruction" of traditional mud and straw thatched homes.At the usually bustling Jakhau port, howling wind battered more than 30 large fishing boats dragged up out of the water onto the shore, as dozens of stray dogs roamed around the port's entrance.
The government of Pakistan PM Sharif has made yet another appeal to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to release the $1.1bn tranche . it is pending since November last year, as the $6.5bn loan programme nears its scheduled expiry at the end of June. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif met IMF’s managing director Kristalina Georgieva in Paris on Thursday and said the country has completed all the requirements asked for by the lender.Sharif added that Pakistan was “fully committed” to fulfilling its obligations, according to a statement issued by the prime minister’s office.
Rana Sanaullah said Pakistan’s former Prime Minister Imran Khan should be tried in a military court for his role in the protests that erupted across the country . Rana Sanaullah accused ex-Prime Minister Khan of personally planning the attacks on military installations as part of deadly protests across the country after he was arrested on May 9. When asked on local news channel Dawn News on Tuesday if Khan would be tried in the military court, Sanaullah replied, “Absolutely, why shouldn't he? The programme that he made to target the military installations and then had it executed, in my understanding absolutely is a case of a military court.”
Khawaja Asif says the former prime minister’s PTI party attacked the ‘very basis of state’ which could not be tolerated. Pakistan is considering banning former Prime Minister Imran Khan’s party for attacking the state. a decision likely to enrage his supporters and exacerbate his confrontation with the military establishment. The former cricket star is embroiled in the latest, critical phase of a decades-old rivalry between civilian politicians and the powerful military, which has ruled directly or overseen governments throughout Pakistan’s history.The face-off has brought widespread protests by Khan’s supporters, raising new fears about the stability of the nuclear-armed country as it struggles with its worst economic crisis in decades.The minister referred to Khan’s protesting supporters who this month attacked military installations, including army headquarters, and government buildings.
A suicide bomber has targeted a security checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan including four soldiers killing two soldiers ,security officials said. It was the second suicide attack to hit Pakistan in as many days.The bombing happened on Wednesday in North Waziristan, a district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province that borders Afghanistan and is a former stronghold of the Pakistan Taliban, also known as TTP.A number of civilians were also wounded in the attack, according to Rehmat Khan, a local police official.“It was a suicide attack and the bomber blew himself up during a road check,” Rasool Daraz, another local police officer, told dpa news agency. no one claimed responsibility for the attack but suspicion is likely to fall on the Pakistan Taliban.
Lawyer was shot by unknown gunmen and had accused imran Khan for murdering him, according to police. Lawyer Abdul Razzaq Shar was on his way to the Balochistan High Court complex in Quetta on Tuesday when he was shot by unknown gunmen, according to a criminal complaint filed on Wednesday. Police officials told Al Jazeera that Shar was shot more than 10 times in his car and died instantly. Shar’s son, Siraj Ahmed, filed the complaint against the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, accusing the ex-premier of abetting murder, saying he believed his father was killed in connection with the case he had filed against imran Khan. “My father filed a case against Imran Khan under Article 6, and I am certain this is why [Khan] and his PTI people killed my father and spread terror,” Ahmed said in the statement, adding that his father had received death threats after filing his petition against Khan.
A prominent human rights organisation Amnesty has issued an urgent global action to mitigate extreme heatwaves in pakistan. They confirmed that South Asian country is at the “frontline of the climate crisis”. In a report to mark World Environment Day on Monday, Amnesty International said Pakistanis are particularly vulnerable to heat waves because they lack the means to protect themselves against high temperatures. According to the Global Climate Risk Index, published by the Berlin-based nonprofit Germanwatch, Pakistan is among the 10 countries most harmed by disasters related to climate change in the past two decades despite contributing less than 1 percent of the world’s planet-warming gases.
Pakistan has received its first shipment of Russian crude oil under an agreement signed between the two countries in April. experts believe it will be too soon to say if the deal will provide significant benefit to domestic consumers. The cargo carrying 45,000 metric tonnes of crude oil arrived at the southern city of Karachi on Sunday while another 50,000 metric tonnes is expected to arrive later this week, according to the Pakistan Refinery Limited (PRL), where the crude oil will be processed. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif called the arrival of the Russian crude a “transformative day” for the crisis-ridden country.“I have fulfilled another of my promises to the nation,” he tweeted. “This is the first-ever Russian oil cargo to Pakistan and the beginning of a new relationship between Pakistan and [the] Russian Federation.”
Najam Sethi has effectively stepped down as head of the PCB, after pulling himself out of the race to become the next board chairman. Sethi was heading an interim management committee that had been running the board since last December but whose tenure was due to end on June 21. Until recently it had seemed that Sethi would carry on after the interim setup ended and be appointed chairman of the board proper. But speculation had grown over the last couple of weeks on the return of Zaka Ashraf. Ashraf, a former board chairman himself, returning is not yet official but that Sethi will not carry on now is. Sethi's tweet was referencing the political horse trading over the chairman's seat. Shahbaz Sharif is the current Prime Minister of Pakistan and the PCB patron. Asif Ali Zardari, a former Pakistan president with the Pakistan People's Party (PPP), is a prominent coalition partner in the current government and Ashraf is thought to be his party's man for the post.
Former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan rejected claims that he was trying to flee the country and said he had no plan to travel abroad even on a vacation.Mr Khan addressed the speculations directly on Twitter on Friday after widespread rumours that the embattled politician could leave the country, which has a history of politicians absconding abroad after being convicted at home.Mr Khan, leader of Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), was added to the no-fly list by the federal government along with his wife Bushra Bibi and dozens of party members.Attaullah Tarar, the special assistant to the prime minister (SAPM) on interior and legal affairs, confirmed to the Tribune Express that Mr Khan and his top aides as well as other PTI leaders had been added to the no-fly list.The actions came amid speculations that Mr Khan is seeking asylum in the US or he could flee to some other country to avoid his arrest in cases ranging from corruption and terrorism to blasphemy.
Pakistan’s media regulator banned broadcasts Imran Khan’s speeches from TV . The development is the latest in a political tug of war between the former cricket star turned Islamist politician and the government of his successor, Shahbaz Sharif, as Khan campaigns for early elections.The ban by the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority was imposed on Sunday and went into effect on Monday. It covers airing of both recorded and live speeches by Khan, who was ousted in a no-confidence vote in Parliament last April. The ban followed a particularly fiery speech by Khan, who has a large grassroots following, lambasting Sharif’s government and the country’s all-powerful military.
Pakistan's Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif today urged PML N chief Nawaz Sharif to come back and lead the election campaign in the country as well as also become the Prime minister for the fourth time. While addressing the central general council meeting of the party, PML-N, Sharif said that he was waiting for his elder brother to return to Pakistan and then hold the party meeting so he could hand over the PML-N's president back to him.It is pertinent to mention that Nawaz Sharif has been in self-imposed exile in London since November 2019 owing to health reasons.
The Pakistani Taliban has claimed responsibility for an attack in northwest Pakistan that left 2 soldiers and 2 militants dead.The army said in a statement that militants opened fire on a security checkpoint Saturday evening in the Jani Khel area of Bannu district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, leading to a shootout with Pakistani troops. A search operation was underway to track the militants behind the attack. TTP spokesman Mohammad Khorasani said — in a statement on their website— that the group carried out the “joint attack” in collaboration with another faction of the Pakistani Taliban, the Hafiz Gul Bahadur group. The militant group has been distancing itself from the TTP and carrying out attacks independently. 


A page on the World Economic Forum’s website listed Dawood as “Vice-Chairman, Engro Corporation, Dawood Hercules,” referring to his family’s firms, not the forum itself. shahzada dawood who died in the Titan submersible was a member of the World Economic Forum’s Family Business Community, but wasn't a vice-chairman , a spokesperson said.The Family Business Community connects “prominent family business leaders worldwide
CNN did not publish any such story, a spokesperson for the network. He told the Associated Press that the submersible had not been found at the time of publishing as the viral image is fabricated. The rescuers race against the clock to find the Titan, the lost submersible operated by OceanGate Expeditions, social media users on Wednesday shared a fabricated CNN report that falsely claimed the vessel has been found with no one inside. he report continues, saying “the submarine” was found but without any passengers, falsely attributing the information. The fabricated report features an image of an OceanGate vessel below the text. The image also shows a red bar at the top of the screen that reads “CATEGORY.” The byline for the story reads, “CNN News.”


In a case of misinformation being shared before the facts were known, a Facebook post claimed that the Titan submersible lost deep undersea had been discovered with all five passengers alive which is totally false because they all are dead. The post said "Well they been found," said the June 21 post, which included images purporting to show the surfaced vessel and text claiming that the passengers survived. The claim was made even as search efforts were ongoing; the fate of the passengers remained unknown as of mid-day June 22. The post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
Following the victory of the Congress in the Karnataka assembly elections, the screenshot of a tweet has been viral on social media platforms. It apparently shows the Prime Minister shahbaz sharif expressing his gratitude to the people of Karnataka for victory which is totally a fake news as he did not congratulated congress. Several Right Wing users shared the screenshot and mocked the party. The fake ‘tweet’, which is in Urdu, can be translated to English as ”I would like to heartily thank the people of Karnataka for electing Congress." I hope that Congress along with our SDPI will work for the strengthening of Islam in India and the sovereignty of Karnataka.
A photo of Nobel Prize-winning activist Malala Yousafzai standing beside a man has been shared tens of thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim he is the son of the Israeli defence minister. The claim is false; the man in the photo is in fact Faisal Iqbal, a well known Pakistani cricket player and Malala Yousafzai Was Not Pictured With Israeli Defence Minister's Son.A reverse image search on Google found the photo shows Yousafzai with Faisal Iqbal, a famed Pakistani cricket player.Iqbal published the photo on his verified Facebook page here on December 19, 2019. The post's caption reads in part: "Good to catch up a surprise Visit of Malala Fund at the US OPEN Cricket. A keen Cricket Follower, Enjoyed Discussing Cricket With her.
A video of Pakistan's Information Minister Marriyum Aurangzeb heckled by Imran Khan supporters in London, is being shared by Indian social media users claiming she was harassed by Pakistanis in the UK . Marriyum Aurangzeb was heckled by pakistani supporters of Imran Khan and the party he founded Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf. Aurangzeb is with the Pakistan Muslim League (N) and is currently the Minister for Information & Broadcasting in the country. Pakistan saw political turmoil after the Imran Khan led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf coalition government fell, with Khan dislodged from his position as prime minister which was taken over by PMLN's Shehbaz Sharif. A search for 'Marriyum Aurangzeb + London' showed several news reports from Pakistani, Indian and international news outlets about how she was heckled in London where she is attending the 77th session of the UN General Assembly.


The document circulating online is not the 1968 BA degree educational certificate of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif, but merely an application Sharif sent recently to obtain a copy of his bachelor's certificate. The official, who asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter, also shared the original application sent by Sharif on June 7. A duplicate bachelor’s certificate was issued to Sharif the very next day.In fact the document is clearly headlined: “Application Forms For Certificates.” The official also shared a copy of the Rs2,990 to obtain a copy of his bachelor’s degree.
None of the news programs related to Jahangir Khan Tareen and the sugar scandal of 2019 and 2020 have been deleted or removed from the YouTube channel of Geo Television, the broadcaster confirmed.In 2020, two reports by the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) were made public naming politician Jahangir Khan Tareen, amongst others, for allegedly benefiting from government subsidies on the export of sugar, as well as profiting from an increase in prices at the time. “The claim is not true,” said Raza Mehdi, the senior social media manager at Geo Television, “You may find all programs links, along with playlists’ URLs. These links can be accessed globally by anyone.” He further clarified that no shower videos regarding jahangir Tareen and the sugar scandal had been removed or deleted from any of the newscast platforms.
Pakistan’s total forest cover, compared to its geographical area, is 4.6%, which is not the lowest in the world. Neither has the United Nations issued any such report that ranks Pakistan as having the lowest expanse of woodland in the world.Mahvash Haider Ali, the national information officer at the United Nations in Pakistan, told Geo Fact Check via messages that she could not locate any such United Nations report that social media posts were citing.“We follow the data of [Pakistan’s] ministry of climate change and environmental coordination,” Ali said, “The official percentage of forest cover in Pakistan for 2020 was 4.6%.”Ali then shared a 2020 report published by the United Nations' Global Forest Resources Assessment. As per the report, Pakistan had a wooded area of 3.73 million hectares out of its total land area.
A survey, which has accumulated thousands of interactions on social media, purportedly shows former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s popularity rising dramatically , But Fact Check organisation has found no evidence. On May 21, a Twitter account titled, “Democratic Studies Institute”, posted the results of province-specific survey, which showed PMLN politician, no additional details about the survey or the think-tank could be found online.In fact, the Democratic Studies Institute has no website, provides no contact details, nor has any presence on other social media platforms.The same survey also claimed that respondents had soured on Sharif’s rival, Imran Khan, whose popularity took a hit and dropped to 3%.
a fake report started to do the rounds on social media that five young girls had been murdered after being raped in different areas of Lyari. While four girls from Lyari had passed away, they were not raped, and neither were they murdered.According to the report, five girls were brought to the Civil Hospital in Karachi in a span of just ten days. Three of those girls reportedly passed away during treatment.However, the police did not register cases for any alleged crime, nor did they launch an inquiry, it was claimed.Moreover, it was alleged that the Woman Medico-Legal Officer (WMLO) at the Lyari Hospital did not perform an autopsy on their corpses. Some others suggested that the girls were taken to the Civil Hospital.
Renowned Pakistani actress and former model Saeeda Imtiaz, 32, is alive; her legal advisor said in an Instagram post.Earlier, it had been shared on social media that renowned Pakistani actress and former model is passed away.The news of Saeeda’s demise was posted by the admin of her Instagram account. The announcement did not specify a cause of death , it just reported that she was found dead this morning.Born in the United Arab Emirates in 1990, the artist has a bachelor’s degree in psychology.Saeeda has also worked as a model, both in shows and in photoshoots, starting in 2013 and finishing in 2018.
A fake video has gone viral in which Naseem Shah is asking if Urvashi Rauteli is ready to marry him. This rumour has gone viral on social media and many media outlets are reporting that Naseem Shah asked at an event if Urvashi Rautela is ready to marry him which is not true. The video is actually edited as two separated portions of Naseem Shah conferenced were joined.Naseem Shah was first asked about Urvashi Rautela, but he refused to make any comment and said that the reporters would make the video viral.In the real video, Naseem Shah was later asked if he would also marry soon like his friends Shadab Khan, Shaheen Shah Afridi and Haris Rauf.
Real website of the Indian embassy in Egypt was fully functional on August 15. Opposite to what is viral, the website of the Indian embassy in Egypt was not hacked on August 15. The fake news running on different media outlets claims that the official website of the Indian embassy in Cairo (Egypt) was hacked by Kashmiri hackers on August 15 to mark their protest which is not true. The image of the hacked homepage of the website was shared in multiple news stories where the hackers – who claimed to be from Indian Occupied Kashmir – placed Pakistan’s flag.The message read, “Hacked by IOK Hackers, Hackers are here, and We do not forget”.
Famous Islamic scholar Dr Zakir Naik was invited to visit Qatar during FIFA World Cup 2022 and since then, rumors are running rife on social media that 4 people are embracing Islam and shahadat at his hands which is not true. In this fake video , four non-Muslims can be seen accepting Islam by saying Shahadah. The video spread like fire and users praised Dr Zakir Naik for his convincing style of preaching that made non-Muslims accept Islam. However, according to our investigation, the viral video of Dr Zakir Naik does not belong to the recent FIFA World Cup 2022, but it had been recorded at least around six years ago.
Benazir Bhutto’s Nikkah look is not creating by Bakhtawar Bhutto-Zardari's wedding, clarified Amber Varsy, the co-founder of Resham Revaj, a brand that rose to fame after the former PM wore their iconic green sharara for her nikkah with Asif Ali Zardari in 1987. Many people on social media have been claiming that Bakhtawar will recreate her mother’s look for her dholki and engagement on November 27 which is not true. “It is equally shocking for us that everyone is saying that we are designing the dress and they haven't even spoken to us,” said Varsy. “We also saw it on social media that she wants to recreate that look. To be honest, we have no idea if she even wants to wear the same outfit or not.”
Leopard attacking dog video is from India, not Pakistan. A video of a leopard entering a house and then attacking a pet dog is being shared on different social media sites.Many people are incorrectly saying that the attack occurred in Islamabad. Deputy Commissioner Hamza Shafqaat corrected a person on Twitter and said that the video is not from Islamabad. The video was actually taken from CCTV camera footage outside a house in India's Gujrat on April 10. According to a 2017 report, the population of leopards has increased in Gujrat. It was 1,070 in 2006 and increased to 1,395 in 2017. Leopard sightings are very common in Gir Somnath district.
Social media was jolted on Saturday afternoon when gruesome pictures surfaced showing bodies of two women, dumped at separate but unidentified locations. It was claimed that the bodies were of students of an Islamabad-based private university and were targeted for participating in a women’s movement. Even though the police and the university denied that any such incident took place on Saturday, the issue continued to spread like wildfire on social media platforms with condemnations of the suspected murder pouring in.In a statement posted to Twitter by islamabad police, Riphah University said that “fake news is circulating about female students bodies of Riphah International University ,No such incident occurred with the university or any student. university is contacting the cyber crime department and legal action will be taken against those spreading the fake news.
Marriyum Aurangzeb on Tuesday rebutted a fake notification circulating in different sections of media regarding a public holiday on May 25.“Disseminating Fake News is not only unethical and illegal but it is also a disservice to the nation. It is the responsibility of everyone to reject irresponsible behaviour. Reject Fake News,” the information ministry said in a tweet.
Pakistani veteran actor Mahmood Aslam recently confronted the “death” rumors that were making rounds on the social media earlier. He shared a video message on his official Instagram account stating that someone started the rumor that the actor has passed away, he denied the rumors officially online. The “Bulbulay” star Mahmood Aslam is alive and healthy, and has strongly condemned the fake news spiraling online.A Facebook user for the sake of “fun” posted about the “bulbulay” star online stating that the actor passed “a smile,” with a black and white picture of the actor beneath the caption, which immediately went viral online as netizens mistook it for his death rumors and started sharing it with “RIP” and condolence captions.
Indian border security forces claimed that a drone from the Pakistani side of the border dropped over six kilograms of heroin near Toor village in the Ajnala. The troops stationed at the border allegedly detected the sound of a possible drone flying from Pakistan into Indian territory near Toor village in Amritsar district. The troops followed protocol and attempted to intercept the drone by firing.The troops stationed at the border allegedly detected the sound of a possible drone flying from Pakistan into Indian territory near Toor village in Amritsar district. The troops followed protocol and attempted to intercept the drone by firing.
In a midnight raid, the father of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leader Hammad Azhar, who has been in hiding for days to evade arrest in connection with the May 9 mayhem, has been apprehended from his house in Lahore by police.This recent raid follows a series of unsuccessful attempts by the authorities to arrest the former federal minister during previous raids at his residence. Notably, he has consistently reaffirmed his support for party chairman Imran Khan, even as several of his colleagues have bid farewell to PTI. According to a tweet posted by Hammad Azhar, he expressed distress over the arrest of his 82-year-old father, Mian Muhammad Azhar.The PTI leader further revealed that his father, who already suffers from multiple health conditions, was taken away by the police and unidentified individuals to an undisclosed location.
The State Bank of Pakistan has responded to rumours circulating on the social media regarding the issuance of Rs10,000 banknotes.The central bank cleared the air as several unverified social media reports falsely claimed that the State Bank of Pakistan is issuing new currency notes of Rs 10,000 which is incorrect .SBP spokesperson told media that reports of issuing higher denomination banknotes are baseless, shooting down rumors circulating on social media.As some social media users believed in the reports, others were quick enough to point out that the name of State Bank Governor Yasin Anwar was engraved on the Rs 10000 note who served till 2014.
Eid holidays in Pakistan have been extended by a day to include Wednesday - June 28. A notification to this effect was issued on June 22 by the Prime Minister’s Office
This tweet spreading a false claim that the child bicycling is none other than “Zardari’s nawasa” was responded to by Bakhtawar Bhutto Zardari . She pointed out that her older child is 20 months old and too young to ride a bicycle. It was also pointed that this was part of an event.This was an event organized by a foreign embassy in Islamabad. However, the tweet has yet to be deleted and so far has generated over 57,000 views. 
Former Member of the National Assembly and a recent addition to the PTI Jamshed Dasti has tweeted a picture of what he claims is a dam in Mohmand district in KP and praised the former government of Imran Khan for constructing it. However, the pic is of America’s Hoover Dam.
The documentary “Behind Closed Doors” by an obscure and unknown group is not coming to Netflix. It will however most likely find its way to their own YouTube channel – with around 107,000 subscribers – not Netflix though.Few tweets by a journalist based in Islamabad who is a staunch (set-professed) supporter of PTI & a London-based individual who claims to be a journalist but who mostly makes propaganda content for the party and churns out fake news favouring it have claimed that documentary titled “Behind Closed Doors” on alleged corruption by the Sharifs will be “released soon on Netflix”which is fake news. A trailer for a documentary has been released on a YouTube channel. Other documentaries have also been posted here
Canadian university is not citing Nawaz Sharif as an example of corruption as Deputy National Assembly Speaker Qasim Suri have been claiming it is of a university lecture in Canada where the instructor is allegedly giving an example of Nawaz Sharif in discussing corruption which is incorrect. A close analysis of the 4 seconds long clip reveals that the information that former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is being used as an example to discuss corruption is via a caption superimposed on the video. As for the audio, it does not support this claim and is incomprehensible.The claim was initially shared by accounts seen as PTI supporters and sympathisers including several which claims to be news websites but are basically platforms used to disseminate and spread information that is often false and misleading
Angelina Jolie does not have a Twitter account to begin with. Hence, this is not her account. She’s on Instagram but not on Twitter.Angelina Jolie is one of the most popular film actresses in the world. She was married to Hollywood hunk Brad Pitt until recently.The couple decided to part ways after differences emerged between them over their children.While it's a common knowledge that Brad Pitt has no social media presence, a large number of people believe that Angelina Jolie has an Instagram account.
A fake news claimed that 7 deaths has been reported in last 24 hours in Karachi. This is false and incorrect. The Sindh Health Department said no such thing. What it did say was that since January 2022 a total of 9 deaths from dengue have occurred in Karachi and that the breakup was six from District East, and on each from Districts Malir, Central and South
A tweet by a lawyer and well known PTI supporter which falsely claimed that aid sent by the UK government in the form of flour bags was being sold at a shop in Sindh which is wrong and incorrrect as UK has not sent any bags of flour for flood victims. The tweet that had claimed the bag was being sold at a shop in Sindh was shared by many PTI supporters and they also tagged the UN asking if not to send any aid to Pakistan. The Sindh government also denied that this was the case Furthermore, one account run by a coder said that the pic was photoshopped and had originally been first shared in 2014. IK any case, there is nothing to suggest in the pic itself that the bag of flour had been stolen from aid meant from flood victims and was being sold in shops
The Federal Government has not announced a public holiday on 25 May 2023 as a fake notification has been circulating on social media declaring that Thursday will be observed as Pakistan Martyrs Day.However, Information Minister, Marriyum Aurangzeb, has confirmed that notification circulating on social media is fake and there is no public holiday on 25 May 2023 (Thursday). “Disseminating #FakeNews is not only unethical and illegal but it is also disservice to the nation. It is the responsibility of everyone to reject irresponsible behavior. Reject #FakeNews” said the Minister of Information and Broadcasting on Twitter.
The Islamabad Administration has not extended winter vacations in the Federal Capital till 16 January 2023 and the notification going viral on social media is fake and has not been issued by Federal Directorate of Education.The Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training on Sunday rejected a "fake news" claiming that winter vacation for Islamabad schools has been extended till January 15 due to extreme weather conditions.A fake notification is circulating on social media that claims: "All educational institutions working under the ambit of Federal Directorate of Education shall now reopen on 16-01-2023.The ministry, however, clarified that no such decision has been taken to extend winter holidays any further in the federal capital.
The Foreign Office Spokesperson, Mumtaz Zahra Baloch, on Monday confirmed that UAE has not banned the issuance of visa to Pakistanis belonging to certain cities. Furthermore, the Consulate General of the UAE Karachi, Bakheet Ateeq Al Remeithi, has also made a statement and denied these reports, saying that no such ban has been imposed by the UAE Government.It is pertinent to mention that false reports have been circulating on social media stating that UAE had banned visa for Pakistanis belonging to certain cities, including Abbottabad, Attock, Bajaur Agency, Chakwal, Dera Ghazi Khan, Dera Ismail Khan, Hangu, Hunza, Quetta, Kasur, Kohat, Kotli, Khushab, Khurram Agency, Larkana, Mohmand Agency, Muzaffargarh, Nawabshah, Parachinar, Sahiwal, Sargodha, Sheikhupura, Skardu and Sukkur. Moreover, the poster that has been spreading online warned people born in any of the above mentioned cities to not apply for a UAE visa as it will be rejected and fee is non-refundable. 
Google Play Store is not shutting down and it will remain available and continue to work in Pakistan after December 1 regardless of online reports claiming that Google Play Services will remain unavailable in the country. it's due to State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) stopping $34 million in Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) payment to tech companies.There are several online reports stating that users from Pakistan will be unable to download apps or make in-app purchases on the Google Play Store from December 1 as it will be shutting down because the company will suspend its Google Play Services in the country due to non-payment of $34 million for Direct Carrier Billing (DCB). Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) allows users to pay for apps or in-app purchases on the Google Play Store using their mobile credit. According to the details, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has suspended DCB payments worth $34 million to overseas tech companies to save the country’s precious foreign exchange reserves.
There are fake reports circulating on social media that Facebook is planning on opening its office in Pakistan. The reports state that Facebook is in talks with Federal Investigation Agency’s (FIA) Director Humayun Bashir. However, these reports have been confirms are fake by the FIA in a press release.“It has been noticed that a fake news regarding opening of Facebook office in Pakistan is circulating in media.” said the press release. “No such official statement was made by FIA and the same is strongly denied.” it added. Furthermore, the press release said the story mentioned the name of an FIA officer (Humayun Bashir) which is misleading.“FIA strongly condemns publishing of such baseless stories without confirmation and authentication.” the press release concluded.
Meta-owned WhatsApp is not adding a third blue tick as a feature to the messaging platform as per several reports circulating on the internet. The confirmation was made WABetaInfo, a service that tracks new features on the encrypted messenger.Taking to Twitter, WABetaInfo confirmed that WhatsApp had no plans to add a third blue tick as a feature to detect screenshots, which was widely being reported by several online sources. “WhatsApp is NOT developing a third blue check to detect screenshot,” said WABetaInfo on Twitter.It is pertinent to mention that several online sources have been reporting on the third blue tick for sometime now and most of them claimed that it will be used to detect chat screenshots taken on WhatsApp. However, the news has been confirmed as fake by WABetaInfo.
Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Hajj and Umrah has announced an installment plan for domestic Hajj pilgrims for Hajj 2023, which is going to offer three flexible payment options.According to the details, Ministry of Hajj and Umrah announced that pilgrims living in the Kingdom and applying for Hajj 1444 AH / 2023 via Ministry’s website of Nusuk application can pay for their Hajj package in full or partial payment (installment plan).The ministry added pilgrims can book their Hajj package through a full payment or by making a first payment of 20% (to be paid within 72 hours from the reservation. Furthermore, the pilgrims will be required to make a second payment of 40% no latter than 07/07/1444AH and the third (final payment) of 40% by 10/10/1444AH.
Muhammad Hassan aka Major Zippy from ZipTech has allegedly scammed Pakistani Gamers of millions of rupees and fled to Turkey. According to the details, ZipTech took money from hundreds of Pakistani Gamers as payment for pre-orders for Graphic Cards (GPUs) and PlayStation 5 (PS5) but never delivered and allegedly left the country.The matter has been trending on Pakistani PC Gamers Facebook Group as those affected by the ZipTech scam share their story on the group. According to reports, ZipTech has scammed people of an estimated Rs. 145 crores that it collected as pre-order money for GPUs and PlayStation 5.These companies, including ZipTech opened pre-orders for Graphic Cards and PlayStation 5 (PS5) at cheap rates compared to the market price of these products. The companies asked customers to pay in advance and wait for 2-3 months for delivery of the product because of shipping delays.
The Pakistan Railways has announced to revive the high-speed Shalimar Express passenger train with reduced fares after one year of closure. According to the details, the Shalimar Express will resume operations from Lahore to Karachi from May 1.Previously, the Shalimar Express travelled from Karachi to Lahore via Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Rohri, Rahim Yar Khan, Bahawalpur, Multan via Toba Tek Singh, and Faisalabad. However, the train will now travel via Sahiwal instead of Faislabad.Furthermore, the Pakistan Railways has reconditioned 19 coaches of the Shalimar Express to provide an enhanced experience to the passengers.
The Two photos showing a fishing vessel is unrelated and falsely to the recent Greece boat tragedy it is in fact, it is from 25 May 2016 when migrants were on a ship that capsized off the Libyan coast.A fishing vessel carrying around 750 migrants capsized off the coast of Greece on 14 June 2023, leaving 81 dead and 104 survivors, while more than 500 people are still missing.According to the report, the photos show an overcrowded boat carrying hundreds of migrants capsizing off the Libyan coast in the Mediterranean Sea after an Italian navy ship approached it.The photos from May 2016, when a migrant boat capsized off the Libyan coast, have been wrongly linked to the Greece boat tragedy. 
The full video about social media activist little imran khan boy was not arrested by the police . A clip cropped from the video went viral on social media, with viewers believing he was arrested. .On 7 June 2023, several Twitter users claimed that law enforcement authorities arrested a child who is popular on social media as as ‘Chota Imran Khan’ for imitating former Prime Minister Imran Khan. On the same day, Twitter user @azharkaasifzai posted a video with a similar caption. The video shows a boy dressed as Imran Khan being taken out of a police van by two policemen, surrounded by a crowd of onlookers. An alternate angle shows the boy was not arrested, but only posed for pictures outside of and while sitting in a police van. Furthermore, the video that is being shared as proof of his arrest does not show any signs of hostility or resistance from the boy or the police. In fact, all the characters seen in the video can be seen posing together for a picture at the end of the video, smiling at the camera.
The video went viral in which the water is crashing onto a bridge is actually from 2017, not from 2023 and is wrongly linked with Cyclone Biparjoy near india.Cyclone Biparjoy has been churning across the northeastern Arabian Sea, heading toward southern Pakistan and western India since last week. The storm is forecast to make landfall near the border of India (Kutch in the western Indian state of Gujarat) and Pakistan (coastal areas of Sindh and Balochistan) around midday Thursday. Coastal warnings have been issued, and tens of thousands of people are being evacuated in both countries.
Asif Ali Zardari underwent a minor eye surgery in Dubai, which was performed successfully, and his health is gradually improving.On 28 March 2023, a viral tweet expressed sorrow for the death of Asif Ali Zardari, claiming that it has not yet been publicly announced which was fake and wrong.A day before, other tweets alluded to the possibility of Zardari’s death. One such tweet shared a photograph of the Chief Minister of Sindh, Murad Ali Shah, tending to an elderly patient on a hospital bed. In response to these tweets, many people expressed their condolences for Zardari’s death, while others claimed that the news was false. It is worth noting that news of Zardari’s death has circulated through mainstream media multiple times over the course of a few years, with particular concentration during the Islamic month of Ramadan.
A fake account pretending to be affiliated with Imran Khan shared an old video out of context to claim that it shows video evidence of women who support PTI facing sexual violence and rape in police custody. On 28 May 2023, Twitter handle fake account @ImranKhan_Force shared a video of a woman arguing with a police officer with the caption, “Evidence of the rape of women" for gaining attention. Through reverse image search tools, Fact Checking organisation found that this 16-second clip was posted to Facebook as part of a longer video, as early as 13 August 2021. The original post includes nine videos that show the same woman speaking to the police and arguing about the mistreatment she faced.
Fashion designer khadija Shah’s legal team confirmed to Fact Checking organisation that “she is still in Kot Lakhpat Jail”. They also told us that Shah’s family “has not been able to meet her and cannot confirm or deny any information independently either” about the conditions she has been kept under. Khadijah Shah is the daughter of former finance minister Salman Shah and the granddaughter of former Pakistan Army Chief Gen (r) Asif Nawaz Janjua. She is a fashion designer, running women’s clothing brands like Elan and Zaha, and is a staunch supporter of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI).A 16-minute long audio clip made rounds on social media on 21 May wherein Shah reiterated that she was not involved in the 9 May unrest and said she was going to surrender to the police.
The video does not show an F-35 fighter jet performing stunt but a scaled-down RC version of a fighter jet is doing this, On 7 May 2023, Twitter account @clipsthatgohard falsely claiming an F-35 jet performing a stunt in the air. The tweet is captioned: “who needs an f35”. It is not a real fighter jet. A similar model can be seen in this clip on the YouTube channel Supercar Blondie titled “Miniature Jet Fighter Flies 500 KM/H”. Fact Checking organisation found that the video has been resurfacing over and over in the past few months, perhaps due to the Russia-Ukraine war. It was shared here in January 2023.
An altered and doctored screengrab of a television show went viral in which the authorities in Saudi Arabia and Prince Mohammed Bin Salman have turned down former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s request for a meeting .Information Minister Marriyum Aurangzeb tweeted on 21 April 2023 that the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz chief and his daughter Maryam Nawaz met the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a recent visit.The former premier, along with his daughter Maryam Nawaz and other family members, travelled to the kingdom on 11 April to perform Umrah.A similar photo was also shared by Arab News on Facebook on the same date with the caption, “Weam Al-Dakheel has become the first woman to anchor the main evening news bulletin on Saudi Arabia’s main national TV station.”
The social media post shared by geo news in which imran said about slapping a prime minister is not real and is doctored as the media outlet did not share any such image or report. While investigating the claim, Fact Checkers reached out to Manzar Elahi, Editor Digital at Geo News Urdu, who confirmed to us that “the image is doctored and Geo never posted it”. Fact Checkers did not find any news report carrying the viral statement being attributed to Khan. To conclude The viral screenshot suggesting that Imran Khan had said an elected prime minister was ousted from office after being slapped one year ago is doctored.
The viral video is a TikTok of PTI activist Maya Haider, it does not show Khadija Shah. On 24 May 2023, a video went viral on WhatsApp with the caption: “Granddaughter of Gen Asif Nawaz before voluntary surrendering to Police.” In this video a woman speaks to the camera and says she has to defend Imran Khan as she believes he speaks the truth.On 9 May 2023, protestors attacked the Jinnah House, which is the official residence of the Lahore Corps commander. Following this, the government made a public announcement of hunting down all individuals marked as participants and labelled fashion designer Khadija Shah as the chief organiser of the attack despite there being several videos that show she was just attending the demonstration as a protestor.
A fabricated statement has been attributed to Miftah Ismail that he blame pdm for 9 may riots. the former minister did not say anything of the sort. Ismail said in a tweet that the screenshot doing the rounds on social media is “fake'.“I have said before and will say it again: PTI is responsible for the May 9th riots,” he said. The politician had said that the “horrific riots” were organised by PTI and it’s leadership on 17 May. “It is important to call a spade a spade. There is no doubt that these horrific riots that set alight military installations, police stations, a radio station, ambulances, cars and busses and resulted in the loss of lives were organised and motivated by PTI and its leadership,” he had tweeted.
Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud, the chief of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), has not been killed in a drone strike in Afghanistan. The viral image is not authentic and the claim has not been confirmed by any credible sources. Local journalists and sources have denied the news of Mehsud’s death and said he is alive. There is no official confirmation of his death from the Pakistani military or the TTP.On 24 March 2023, a screenshot of an ARY News bulletin went viral on social media.Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud is one of the most prominent figures of the TTP and a member of the Mehsud tribe. He has served as the head of TTP’s Mehsud faction and has written books against American imperialism. False news regarding his death has been circulated by ARY before as well.
Viral Geo news bulletin claiming that a member of the Tiger Force received 16 lakhs in reward is fake as Geo News did not publish this bulletin. On 15 May 2023, an image of a Geo News bulletin went viral on social media. According to this image, a member of the Peshawar Tiger Force hid eight protestors in his house and at night, he colluded with the police to get them arrested. As a result, he was given a reward of 16 lakh rupees. The image also included a government ad showing the faces of all the protesters and the announcement that if anyone helps in their arrest, the government will give them 2 lakh rupees in reward.Earlier, the Punjab Home Department announced a 200,000 PKR reward to anyone who would help the authorities crack down on people who were allegedly involved in an attack on the Corps Commander House in Lahore on 9 May 2023, after PTI chairman Imran Khan was arrested. The Punjab Home Department announcement contained several images of civilians, including women and children.
Imran Khan did not say Ali Amin Gandapur was sexually assaulted. Khan did not give any such statement. The graphic doing the rounds on social media is doctored. Manzar Elahi, Editor Digital at Geo News Urdu, clarified in a tweet that the screenshot doing the rounds on social media is fake.On 6 April, Gandapur was arrested by the police in the check post attack case after he voluntarily surrendered to the police outside the Peshawar High Court, DI Khan bench. He went to the court to secure bail in different cases registered against him.
The photo in which the imran is injured in Nab Custody is unrelated to 9 May incident . In fact, it is from May 2013 when Khan fell from a lifter while he was climbing the stage at an election rally in Lahore. Pakistan Rangers arrested PTI chief Imran Khan from the Islamabad High Court premises on 9 May 2023 in the Al-Qadir Trust case while apparently acting on the arrest warrants issued by the NAB. Khan appeared before Judge Mohammad Bashir at the makeshift NAB court at the Police Lines Islamabad. A photo of him sitting on a chair in the court has circulated on social media. The politician’s arrest has sparked nationwide protests. The police said that eight people have died and about 1,000 have been arrested, while PTI has claimed the death toll is much higher.
The federal government and District Magistrate did not announce a lockdown as the notification is doctored.On 9 May 2023, a notification went viral on social media claiming that Islamabad is to be sealed and Punjab cordoned off while observing a lockdown, given the escalating political tension in the aftermath of former PM Imran Khan’s arrest. It also reads that all educational institutions will remain closed and only essential emergency services such as healthcare will remain open.The image shows obvious signs that it was doctored, as the signature of the District Magistrate seems to be pasted onto it.
Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari did not visit the graves of Indian soldiers who died in the Kargil War against Pakistan during his recent visit to India. In Fact,the photo doing the rounds on social media is from Bilawal’s visit to Lithuania in February 2023 when he paid a visit to the monument of Lithuanian freedom fighters in Vilnius. During his two-day visit, Bilawal delivered a speech at the SCO meeting. He met with his counterparts from Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan and China, as well as SCO Secretary-General Zhang-Ming. The foreign minister interacted with the media and gave interviews to journalists Rajdeep Sardesai and Suhasaini Haider. Bilawal also attended a dinner hosted for all foreign ministers.
A viral video shows a man dumping goats from a moving truck on Karachi’s Super Highway is not from Karachi, Pakistan but actually is from Maharashtra, India. In the 27-second video, a man can be seen at the back of a moving truck, dumping goats, and possibly other animals, onto the road from quite a height. The caption claims he is stealing the animals. The video is filmed from within a car behind the truck.the location in the video and car number plates do not look like they are from Pakistan.A screengrab from the video shows green signboards. On zooming in, a distorted “Aurangabad, Sinnar, and Ghoti” could be seen written on the signboards with their respective distances.
A Grand Mosque’s administration in Makkah shared an image of Nawaz Sharif is misleading and fake because Harmain Shareefain is not an official Facebook page run by the Saudi Government. The nawaz sharif can be seen surrounded by protocol officers offering Umrah, with the caption, “His Excellency the former Prime Minister of Pakistan performed Umran in Masjid Al Haram earlier today.” The page also deleted the post with Nawaz Sharif’s image shortly after posting it.The screenshot was posted by a blue-ticked account called Haramain Sharifain, and the video was captioned as follows:“His Excellency the former Prime Minister of Pakistan performed Umrah in Masjid Al Haram earlier today..”
A mountain of gold has not been found in the Euphrates River. On 18 April 2023, a Twitter user uploaded an image showing a site of ruins with the caption: The Prophet PBUH said, “The Hour will not come to pass before the River Euphrates dries up to unveil the mountain of gold, for which people will fight. 99 out of 100 will die (in the fighting) and every man amongst them will say: ‘Perhaps I may be the only one to remain alive.”The image included text saying, “Golden Mountains showed up after the Euphrates river finally dried up.” This photo was being portrayed in videos and images on social media as one of the signs of the Day of Judgement as theologized by various religions like Islam and Christianity. In these videos, people claim that mountains of gold have been discovered from the Euphrates in Iraq, which proves the Quranic and Biblical prophecies to be true.
The Ministry of Finance has not yet released money or funds to the Election Commission of Pakistan for the Punjab elections. On 8 April 2023, several people tweeted falsely that the Ministry of Finance had released 10 billion rupees for the Election Commission of Pakistan to hold the Punjab Assembly elections . Some tweets claimed that the Ministry of Finance had released 10 billion rupees following a Supreme Court order so that the Punjab Assembly elections could be held on 14 May 2023.Other tweets claimed that the ECP’s complete requirement was 21 billion rupees, out of which only 10 billion have been released so far. Therefore, news of the release of 10 billion rupees shared on 8 April 2023 is false.
Images do not show an Algerian mosque revealed after a sandstorm. The pictures represent two separate structures present in El Oued, Algeria, suspected to be a village. On 17 April 2023, a Twitter account (@Arabbeau) posted two pictures with the caption, “A mosque appeared in the desert after a sandstorm – Algeria.”The pictures depict two structures built in the sand. Numerous other tweets also claim that these pictures show a mosque from the 6th century that was recently uncovered after a sandstorm..different photographers captured both pictures; and they do not show a part of a mosque. The first picture was taken by American photographer George Steinmetz near Lizereg, El Oued, Algeria. In a conversation with MAFINDO, Steinmetz revealed that he had taken this picture back in 2009 and confirmed that the image was meant to depict an abandoned village, portraying the use of domes for building homes. A post on Facebook dating back to 2015, also explains this while crediting Steinmetz. The second picture was taken by French Photographer Cyril Preiss near an abandoned village in El Oued, Algeria. In a conversation with AFP News, Preiss mentioned that he had taken this picture back in 2004, when he posted it here. He noted that while he was not sure what the building was, it was not a mosque, as claimed by the viral tweets.
Reports claiming that Member National Assembly Mohsin Dawar and his colleagues faced an assassination attempt on their way to Peshawar from Islamabad have been doing the rounds on social media, but the lawmaker’s colleagues have declared them false. A fake screenshot of journalist Saleem Safi’s tweet is being circulated on social media, saying that Mohsin Dawar, National Democratic Movement’s founder, and his colleagues faced an assassination attempt when they were on their way to Peshawar from Islamabad. However, Khushal Khan Khattak, who is also a member of the NDM, rubbished the report, saying that the lawmaker is safe.
While Toje praised India and Modi in different interviews, he did not endorse the Indian prime minister as the biggest contender for the Nobel Peace Prize. The Nobel Committee has a secrecy rule in place about the details of the nominees. the claim to be false after coming across an interview of Toje with Indian news agency ANI News in which he said, ”…A fake news tweet was sent out. I think we should treat it as more ALL fake news. It is fake, let’s not discuss it or give it energy or air or oxygen. I categorically deny that I said anything resembling what was in that tweet.”Toje did not say Modi is the top contender for the Nobel Peace Prize but, in fact, said that a tweet stating so is fake.
The photos doing the rounds on social media are not real about the arrest of Donald trump in new york as the photos are AI generated.It was generated by Bellingcat founder Eliot Higgins using the Artificial Intelligence (AI) art tool Mid Journey.On 21 March 2023, Twitter user @yoncecapital posted a fake photo of claiming that it shows former US president Donald Trump being arrested in New York.BBC News pointed out that the viral AI-generated images of Trump look hyper-real and have inconsistencies like an arm appearing too short, unnatural skin tones and faces with blurred-out features and inaccurate depiction of eyes.Donald Trump’s arrest photos have been wrongly shared as real. The photos were generated by the artificial intelligence program, Mid Journey. The former US president has been indicted but not arrested yet in relation to an investigation.Donald Trump’s arrest photos have been wrongly shared as real. The photos were generated by the artificial intelligence program, Mid Journey. The former US president has been indicted but not arrested yet in relation to an investigation.
Reports claiming that Member National Assembly Mohsin Dawar and his colleagues faced an assassination attempt on their way to Peshawar from Islamabad have been doing the rounds on social media, but the lawmaker’s colleagues have declared them false. A fake screenshot of journalist Saleem Safi’s tweet is being circulated on social media, saying that Mohsin Dawar, National Democratic Movement’s founder, and his colleagues faced an assassination attempt when they were on their way to Peshawar from Islamabad. However, Khushal Khan Khattak, who is also a member of the NDM, rubbished the report, saying that the lawmaker is safe.
The picture in the centre about three PTI workers allegedly injured from 2014 and is unrelated to the PTI. while the other two photos are, in fact, of the same individual but from different times and angles. On 8 March 2023, Pakistani anchor and YouTuber Imran Riaz Khan posted a picture of three bloodied individuals (archive) allegedly injured during a Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) rally in Lahore, the capital of Punjab, on Wednesday. The torture of traitors continues. The rally was met with a government crackdown as police tried to disperse participants, using different method including water cannon following the imposition of Section 144, which bans public gatherings, in Lahore.
The PKR 5,000 note will not be discontinued and the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has not announced the date about removing them.The SBP has not announced a decision to discontinue the PKR 5,000 banknote and, in fact, has no plans to do so in the future. In an email to Soch Fact Check, a SBP spokesperson said the central bank “categorically rejects all such rumors.the claim about the note being discontinued has garnered over 10,000 interactions across more than 60 posts containing links to different news-gathering sites. The claim is continuing to spread on Facebook, according to CrowdTangle, with a 23 October post by G News Network performing almost 15 times better than its counterparts.
Sensational news pieces wrongly claim people can get free petrol in Pakistan. These fake news reports claims that “huge reserves of petrol have been found in Pakistan”, as a result of which people in Pakistan will be able to fill petrol in cars for free. The news quickly spread across various news-gathering websites, none of which have proper ‘About Us’ sections or contact information.Fact Checkers found that numerous such reports have been released since July 2021, the month in which the Oil and Gas Development Company Limited (OGDCL) sent a letter to the stock exchanges in Karachi and London announcing a “gas and condensate discovery over Kawagarh Formation”.
a naked girl did not attack media at Aurat March 2023.The caption has nothing to do with the video, which just shows the reaction of a video blogger, Malik Ali, to the Aurat March. On 9 March 2023, Malik Ali, a video blogger, posted a video titled, “What happened in Aurat March, 2023?”.The entire video — which is four minutes and 18 seconds long — shows Malik Ali speaking against the Aurat March, with the vlogger making some disparaging comments about the March’s organisers and participants. The vlog was shared to a Facebook playlist called “Exposed!!!”, which has close to 130,000 followers and has “content to expose negativities prevailing in society”. It has already been watched almost 1,000 times.
Modi did not criticise Pakistan government after Imran Khan’s ouster.he claim is misleading because the video was from 2019, when Khan was in power and Modi criticised him during his election campaign.
On 11 January 2023, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) member and lawmaker Senator Azam Khan Swati posted a video on Twitter.The 15-second clip shows Indian PM Modi claiming that India has “driven out all of Pakistan’s fake bluster”. He further says “I forced them to carry a bowl and beg all over the world”.The video shared by Swati implies that Modi’s comments are about the coalition government which came into power after Khan was ousted through the vote of no confidence in April 2022.
On 10 January 2023, a Twitter account posted a video with the caption, “We demand azadi, #FreeBalochistan from the occupation of the #PakArmy, and an end to barbarism.ideo does not show Baloch students protesting for freedom from Pakistanas the claim is false. The video is from the University of Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where students protested against the ban on women’s education in Afghanistan. This is not Kashmir, but the voice of the Balochs and Pashtun from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and we'll not allow Pakistan to abuse our rights any longer.”The 7-second video shows students holding play cards and chanting the Urdu word “azadi” freedom in a hall.
There has not been any snowfall in Islamabad in December 2022 or January 2023.On 1 January 2023, images surfaced on social media claiming that Islamabad received snowfall for the first time in history. Soch Fact Check also received the clip on WhatsApp the same day.The image showing snowfall in Islamabad immediately went viral, with some praising God for a miracle, and others terming it a sign of the end of times.In these images, the mountains around Islamabad were also covered with snow.the National Meteorological Center (NMC) said the video clip “is fake”, according to the English-language Pakistani media outlet, Pakistani Gazette. Pakistan’s “largest platform” for weather updates and forecasts, @PakistanWeather, said the occurrence was improbable, “knowing that the temperature in Islamabad today reached 30 degrees Celsius, and it is not climatically prepared for snowfall”. The news and communications account of the region of Islamabad, @islamabadregion, also debunked the viral clip.It has not snowed in Islamabad in January 2023 so far and the recent pictures went viral are fake,
Half of Pakistanis did not say they would leave the country if they get the chance.PIDE’s November 2022 survey states that 37% of people answered yes to the question, “Would you leave Pakistan if given the chance?”.On 14 December 2022, an Instagram page called The Pakistan Frontier published an image with the following text: “Half Of Pakistanis Will Leave Pakistan If They Have A Chance. Survey Report.” The caption also included the information that the survey results were sourced from the Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE).According to PIDE’s recent survey, not half but 37% of Pakistanis said they would leave the country if given a chance.The survey then further categorizes the answers according to education levels, age, sex, territory, province, region, and the other reasons why participants said they would want to leave the country, if given the chance. The survey was conducted in 4 provinces and 3 territories. 
Punjab Food Authority did not seize frog meat in Lahore as the claim is false.PFA stated that no such raid occurred in the city. So far, no complaints regarding using frog meat in restaurants or hotels in Lahore have been registered.Fact Check reached out to the Punjab Food Authority (PFA) to investigate the claim’s authenticity. Director of Public Relations at PFA Syed Umair Hassan confirmed that no such raid took place in Lahore or any other city in the province. He asserted that the news circulating on social media has no truth to it. He also said that they are in touch with the Punjab Police and neither entity have any information about the apparent raid. A source from the PFA also confirmed that they have not received any complaints about the use of frog meat in restaurants or hotels. They further stated that similar false information was previously shared in 2019.The news circulating on social media regarding frog meat being used in restaurants and hotels in Lahore is false. The Punjab Food Authority did not seize five tons of frog meat and the posts claiming otherwise are false. 
Canada is not issuing visas through lottery. The claim is false. Canada does not have a visa lottery program. The viral message went viral on WhatsApp in early November 2022. Canada’s official institution in charge of immigration and citizenship is called Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC). The official IRCC website specifically warns users against internet scams and fake websites claiming to offer easy ways to receive a Canadian visa. Canada does not have a visa lottery system. Multiple scam links have emerged over the years, claiming to be applications for Canada visa lotteries. The IRCC has strictly warned users against such scams. The official IRCC website is the most reliable source of information relating to immigration to Canada.
Mahenoor Soomro denies marriage rumours with Bilawal Bhutto.Mahenoor has denied the rumours, urging people to avoid spreading fake news regarding her marriage.Fact Check found the claim to be false. Responding to rumours about her marriage with Bilawal, Mahenoor took to Twitter to urge people to stop spreading fake news. Earlier in September, a reporter on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly asked Bilawal about his marriage plans, to which the politician responded, “Of course I have plans to marry,” but “I am in no rush.”Mahenoor Soomro has denied speculations of tying the knot with Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari.
Mohenjo-Daro will not be removed from the UNESCO list of World Heritage sites. Mohenjo-Daro was never under consideration for removal, and UNESCO has directed $350,000 to the recovery and restoration of heritage sites in Pakistan in the aftermath of the flood. On 4 September 2022, a Facebook post falsely claimed that Mohenjo-Daro will likely be removed from the list of World Heritage sites. Several other posts and mainstream news organizations such as Dawn and Tribune India also shared the misleading headline that UNESCO may delist it due to damage caused by torrential monsoon flooding, which engulfed more than one-third of the country. Mohenjo-Daro will not be removed from UNESCO’s list of World Heritage Sites.
Pakistani cricketer Usman Khan Shinwari is not dead. His 46-year-old namesake, Usman Shinwari, passed away from a heart attack while playing a Corporate League match in Lahore but he was not a national cricketer.The latter took to Twitter to refute rumours about his death. He tweeted, “Me belkul thek ho Allah ka shukar hai mery pory family ko log calls kr rahy hai with due respect itni bari News chalany se pehly tasdeeq kar liya kary shukria🙏” I am completely fine, thanks to Allah. My entire family is getting calls, with due respect, please investigate and verify before running such big news.
The viral video is not from Bakhtawar Bhutto Zardari’s son’s birthday but from a birthday in Sialkot. It went viral on social media before the wrongly attributed claim as social media users shared it, commenting on the grandeur and extravagance of the event. On 15 September 2022, photographer Irfan Ahson shared clips and images from a birthday party. The party was hosted by Zaina Arshad and her husband for their 1-year-old daughter. Zaina runs a joint Instagram blog called Real Life of Arshad Sisters on Instagram with her sister. She is also the CEO of Jasmine Events. Irfan Ahson first shared the video clip on his Instagram account. Comments under the post criticised the extravagance of the event, especially in light of the recent floods in Pakistan. It also went viral on Twitter. It gained traction on a tweet captioned, “This is not a Shadi Event, it’s a Birthday party for a 1 YEAR OLD Pakistani Elites man receiving 14600 likes, 2,336 retweets and 1,232 quote tweets. In 2021, Bakhtawar Bhutto announced the birth of her son Mir Hakim Mahmood on 10 October via Twitter. Hence, he has not turned one yet.
Video does not show giant waves destroying Emaar apartments in Karachi.The claim is false. The video is from 2018 Spain where huge waves from a wind storm on the north coast of Tenerife in the Canary Islands hit the balconies of residential apartments.On 18 August 2022, a Facebook page shared a video with the caption “Emaar Apartment, Phase-8, DHA Karachi today.” In the 8-second video, water waves can be seen hitting and destroying the balcony of a residential apartment building. The video started circulating after Karachi experienced heavy monsoon rains which caused major infrastructural damage and flooding in different parts of the city.
The man seen in the viral video in Ashura ritual in Karbala is not Johnny Depp but, in fact, Iranian model Amin Sal’es.On 8 August 2022, Twitter user @mizsworld shared the picture of a man with long hair and sunglasses holding sticks in each of his hands, accompanied by the caption, “WHAT IS JOHNNY DEPP DOING IN KARBALA.” The man can be seen standing in a crowd, apparently at a ceremony, with the words, “السلام عليكم [Assalam o Alaikum],” and others wearing black in the background.The tweet implies that American actor Johnny Depp participated in an Ashura mourning ceremony.Ashura is commemorated annually on 10 Muharram, the first month in the Islamic calendar, in remembrance of the battle of Karbala in 680 AD. Karbala is a city in Iraq. Multiple social media accounts posted similar images and captions, fuelling confusion over whether Depp actually attended the event or not.
There have been many viral videos that falsely depict individuals reciting the Azaan (call to prayer) on different talent shows. Examples of such videos can be seen here, here and here. This particular video is one such video, with a caption that claims it took place on “India’s biggest (talent) show.”This is a doctored video with a fake background that reads “Britain’s Got Talent” and clips of Indian celebrities have been edited into the video from Indian talent shows.The background in the video clearly reads “Britain’s Got Talent,” which is not an Indian show, and has a completely different set of judges than those shown in the doctored video. After reviewing aired episodes of Britain’s Got Talent, Fact Checkers found out that no such performance of the Azaan was aired on even that show, which means that the background in the doctored video was fake.The clips showing Bollywood actresses Shipla Shetty and Rani Mukherji used in the doctored video are taken from this episode of Indian show Super Dancer, while that of Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan is taken from this episode of Indian Idol Junior. A Youtuber by the name of Sk Nazmul Hassan has made a video detailing how some of these fake videos featuring the Azaan are doctored.
Imtiaz Supermarket is not likely to collapse due to damage caused by monsoon rainfall. The management of Imtiaz Supermarket has denied the claims, terming them fabricated and baseless. Moreover, a Soch Fact Check reporter visited the store in question and confirmed that the basement is not flooded. Fact Check contacted a representative of Imtiaz Supermarket from the head office to inquire about the viral claim. The representative reiterated that the claims are false and that the supermarket remained open during the period of heavy rainfall, as well as in the aftermath. They noted that if the building had been damaged, they would have temporarily closed the store to prevent further deterioration. Claims that the basement of Imtiaz Supermarket in Gulshan-e-Iqbal is likely to collapse are false. The store management denied the claims. The basement did not show any signs of damage.
Suzuki has not announced any plans to discontinue the GS150 motorcycle in Pakistan and launch a new 125cc motorcycle. On 23 June 2022, Startup Pakistan shared a fake image on their Facebook page with text claiming that Suzuki will discontinue the GS150 motorcycle in Pakistan. According to the Suzuki Pakistan website, the GS150SE is still available for purchase at PKR 249,000. Musa Kazmi, an official who works at Suzuki Motors Walton, Lahore confirmed to Soch Fact Check that no announcement has been made with regards to the introduction of a new 125cc motorcycle or the discontinuation of the GS150. He noted that he has also come across posts carrying the false claim on social media.act Check also got in touch with Shafiq Shaikh, the Head of Public Relations and official spokesman Pak Suzuki Motor Company stationed at their headquarters in Karachi. Shaikh confirmed that the GS150 motorcycle is not being discontinued and a new 125cc motorcycle is not being introduced
The National University of Modern Languages is not replacing tea with local drinks at university cafes. The claim is false. NUML has not issued a notification in this regard. The image of the alleged notification spreading on social media is fabricated.Fact Check decided to investigate the image of the notification after it was flagged as potentially fake by university students. To investigate the claim, Soch Fact Check reached out to NUML’s public relations officer Mr Muhammaed Bilal. Bilal verified that no such notification has been issued by the university administration. He clarified that HEC did issue a statement but that NUML university administration has not followed up with the implementation of any policies.
The government has not issued an announcement relating to an increase in the value of the cash disbursements provided under the Ehsaas program as the claim is false. The Ehsaas Kafalat program was launched by the PTI government in 2019, continuing and building on the Benazir Income Support Programme, which was launched in 2008 by the then-ruling PPP government. According to the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) official Twitter, newly elected Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif has announced he will restore the program’s “original name”, the Benazir Income Support Program. The program aims to provide monthly stipends to impoverished women and families across the country.The government has not increased payments under the Ehsaas program.Fact Check reached out to an Ehsaas Kafalat recipient from Lahore. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, she said she has not received an increased stipend under the Ehsaas program; in fact, she said, she has not received a stipend since Imran Khan’s ouster. She also noted that she had not received any funds from the government by way of Eidi.
Lay’s Pakistan’s chips contain the additive E631, which is derived from plants not animal fat so the chips do not contain any pork. In a viral video a man displaying a packet of Lay’s masala chips and pointing towards a halal logo, which certifies that the product complies with Islamic guidelines, on the back of the packet. The man then proceeds to show the ingredients and points towards a flavour enhancer, E631. He Googles it on his phone and pulls up a website that claims E631 is derived from pork fat. He concludes the video by saying in Urdu, “We are being fed this by telling us that it is halal. We are being deceived so much'. Fact Check found the claim to be false. The website the man referred to in the video clarified in a blog post that, “Regarding the issue of E631 in Lays products in Pakistan we would like to refer to the Lays Pakistan Statement and the certification of Halal of Lays products. The inosinate is made from tapioca starch and no animal products are involved in the production.”
The US is not discontinuing the use of US dollar bills printed before 2021 from January 2023 onwards.No such meeting was held between the US Federal Reserve bank, IMF, World Bank and Governors of Africa’s Central Banks on 2 November.act Check did not find any such claims or press release of such a meeting on the official White House website. The website is regularly updated with major decisions taken by the American Federal Government.The World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund (IMF) held their annual meetings in Washington, DC, between 14-16 October, 2022. The US Secretary of the Treasury brought up four points, the last of which was supporting vulnerable countries as they navigate immediate economic challenges.he claim also went viral in Nigeria, India and Sri Lanka.
A false Claim went viral over Peshawar university lecturer was killed over blasphemy. The claim is false, as confirmed by Islamia College University’s provost and a journalist from Peshawar. On 19 February 2023, Twitter account @DayWithNews posted this wrong and fake tweet (archive) claiming that Dr Bashir Ahmad, a lecturer at the Department of English of Peshawar’s Islamia College University, was shot dead over alleged blasphemy. Fact Check reached out to Islamia College University Provost Mian Syed Kamal, who denied that alleged blasphemy was the reason behind the dispute between Dr Bashir Ahmad and the guard, who has been identified as Sher Muhammad, according to a 21 February news report (archive).“This is categorically incorrect. It was a situational issue,” Kamal said. “Nothing of this sort [blasphemy] ever came up before.”
Reports wrongly state co-education banned in Chakwal after notification withdrawn and this claim is misleading. The Deputy District Education Officer (M-EE) for Chakwal did issue a notification on the “prohibition of co-education in government schools at elementary level” in Chakwal but this notification was cancelled by the DC Office Chakwal shortly afterward, prior to the article being published. Fact Check found the news to be misleading. While the notification referred to in the news story was issued and did prohibit co-education in government schools at the elementary level between grades six to eight, the Deputy Commissioner Chakwal Bilal Hashim cancelled the notification in an official statement on 24 December 2021. The statement was posted on the DC Chakwal Official Facebook and Twitter accounts.
The doctor who treated the child confirmed that she died due to severe pneumonia, a condition in which food or liquid enters the airways or the lungs, and not due to the polio vaccine. Zulfiqar Babakhel, the media manager at Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme National Emergency Operations Centre (NEOC), also refuted the claims circulating on social media. On 30 September 2022, two posts — here and here — emerged on Facebook alleging that the polio vaccine, administered as oral drops to children across Pakistan, caused the death of a girl child in the Pashtoon Abad neighbourhood of Quetta, Balochistan.The posts started gaining traction exponentially, with the former being shared more than 250 times on Facebook.Fact Checker reached out to Zulfiqar Babakhel, the media manager at the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme NEOC, to inquire about the claim’s authenticity.Babakhel said the posts were brought to the team’s attention and reported to Facebook as well. The child, he added, was “definitely administered the polio vaccine drops, but the cause of her death was pneumonia.”
Treatment under the Sehat Card programme continues across the country as of 20 April 2022. As for complaints being registered by citizens against hospitals refusing treatment, these incidents are being thoroughly investigated and action may be taken against the hospital. So far, most complaints have been received from Punjab, according to the helpline. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Health Minister Taimur Saleem Jhagda also addressed rumours about the Sehat Card programme being discontinued.“There is absolutely no truth in any rumours that the Sehat Card programme is being discontinued from the hospitals across the country. In Pakhtunkhwa, the programme is independent of the federal govt. In the next cabinet we will approve legislation to ensure that universal health coverage is mandated by law in KP,” he tweeted on 19 April 2022.Jhagra shared that close to 1.1 million individuals have benefited from the Sehat Card in KP so far, with 80,000 benefiting from the program in March alone.
Experts have advised standard precautions when handling and cooking meat. On 8 March 2022, Soch Fact Check received a voice message on WhatsApp explaining that a disease has spread among cattle in Karachi and falsely claiming that it can transmit to humans on consumption of cow meat, loose milk or yoghurt. According to the message, once transmitted, the disease causes blisters to appear on the human body.An image of a notification issued by the Sindh Government’s Local Government and Housing Town Planning departments was sent alongside the voice message.the disease is not zoonotic, meaning that it is not transmissible to humans. There is no risk to humans in consuming beef and dairy products, provided standard precautions are taken when handling and cooking meat. LSDV cannot infect humans and it remains safe to consume meat and dairy products.
The video was uploaded in September 2022 by YouTube channel BBB-Gaming, which flagged it as a “flight simulation” and “not real”.On 5 January 2023, Facebook page ‘Mr Joy YT’ uploaded a video showing an aeroplane marked ‘Air Austriana’ landing at an airport but with one of its landing gears stuck, faltering and zigzagging midair before bouncing on the runway, hitting its engines on the ground, and skidding to a halt.The video has gained over 102,000 views and more than 2,800 reactions as of writing time.A video uploaded in September 2022 by YouTube channel BBB-Gaming has wrongly been portrayed as an Indian plane making an emergency landing at an airport in Pakistan. In fact, the YouTube channel that originally posted the clip flagged it as a “flight simulation”.
Sindh’s Pink Bus Service is not the first-ever bus service for women in Pakistan. The women-only buses were launched in Lahore in 2012, in Peshawar in April 2019 and in Gilgit-Baltistan in October 2022.In January 2012, a local bus company, First Bus Service, launched a female-only bus service in Lahore. The pilot project was inaugurated by PML-N’s Hamza Shahbaz. Dawn News published an article on 2 April 2019 about a women-only pink bus service hitting the roads in Mardan district on April 4 after a year-long delay.
Shaukat Tarin was not arrested by the Federal Investigation Agency but he has been charged and may be taken into custody in the near future.In August 2022, two audio clips surfaced of a telephone conversation between PTI Senator Shaukat Tarin instructing party ministers in KPK and Punjab not to commit to a provincial surplus to the IMF and federal government, in light of the recent floods that wreaked havoc in Pakistan. As a result, the FIA Cyber Crime Wing Islamabad formally launched an inquiry against Tarin over the leaked audio clip of purported telephonic conversation.To verify the claim, Soch Fact Check investigated multiple sources, including news reports and official statements. We that Tarin has not been arrested.Fact Check investigated multiple sources, including news reports and official statements. We that Tarin has not been arrested.
WHO did not publish a list of 7 "biggest brain damaging habits” as the WHO had not declared such a list.Fact Check could not find any specific reference to such a list or graphic attributed to WHO on any of the public health organisations websites or social media pages.Google Reverse Image Search could not identify the images original source online. However, we found that the same claim has gone viral on WhatsApp in other Asian countries. We found an AFP Philippines report that stated local WHO officers had denied the WHO authored the post, further affirming that the WHO had not issued such a list of brain damaging habits. Viral WHO guidelines about chances of brain stroke are false and not issued by WHO.Fact Checkers also conducted a search on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram and found that different variations of the same text labeled as “7 brain damaging habits” has been viral on these platforms in various years from 2017 to now.
The media outlet did not air any such news, nor did the PML-N leader make any such comment about Maryam Nawaz. The news grab doing the rounds on social media is doctored.Fact Check found the claim to be false. Hum News clarified via a tweet that the news being linked to the media outlet is fake as the channel did not air any such statement given by Nawaz. They also stated that the screengrab doing the rounds on social media is doctored.The news grab features a photo from a February 2023 presser during which Maryam did not make any statement about PTI being jealous of her beauty. Hum News clarified that the channel did not air any such news, and the screengrab is doctored.Maryam Nawaz did not say PTI supporters are jealous of her beauty.
The lecturer, Dr Bashir Ahmad, was acquitted of all charges in a case of drug peddling that was brought against him in 2017 and is not shot dead in 2023.The reports also claimed that the deceased and the accused had heated arguments in the past and this time around, it ended fatally. The ICU’s Teaching Staff Association also took action, convening (archive) a meeting under its president, Professor Dr Izhar Ahmad, that called for an investigation into the murder, condemned the newspaper for its “baseless” reporting and issued a defamation notice (archive), criticised the university for negligence in security, and demanded (archive) the release of “full and genuine” closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage of the killing.the report of involvement of the lecturer, Dr Bashir Ahmad, in drug peddling is old and he was cleared by the court of all charges in 2019.
PSL 8 has not been affected by the attack and will continue as scheduled, according to the Pakistan Cricket Board. A decision on the Asia Cup venue is expected in March 2023. A terrorist attack took place at the Karachi police chief’s office at Shahrah-e-Faisal on 17 February 2023, killing five people and injuring at least 18. The Pakistan Cricket Board confirmed via a press release that PSL 8 will continue as scheduled. The press release quoted PCB Chairman Najam Sethi as saying, “The HBL PSL 8 will continue as planned after it has been established and confirmed that Friday’s incident was an isolated one, which was unrelated to cricket.“We have been working very closely with all stakeholders, including the local and foreign security experts, who have provided assurances and comfort that the event can proceed as there was no threat to cricket,” he said.The Pakistan Super League has not been postponed after the Karachi Police Office attack. Pakistan has the hosting rights for the 2023 Asia Cup, and a final decision on the venue is expected in March 2023.
Salman Ahmed of Junoon was not arrested recently as Old videos of him being arrested were shared out of context.Salman Ahmad is very active on Twitter; we viewed his Twitter profile and saw him posting throughout the day on 25 March 2023 and then on 26 March 2023 as well, showing no signs of him having been arrested. Fact Check also conducted a thorough search of all mainstream new media organizations for any news of Salman Ahmad’s arrest, but we found that there had been no articles published on 25 and 26 March 2023 claiming that he was arrested. On closer inspection, it can be seen in the video that the arrest is taking place in broad daylight, which is not anywhere near the time of iftar, which coincides with the time of sunset. And the Express Tribune logo could be seen on the top right corner of the frame of the video.
Miftah Ismail’s interview with We News was taken out of context. Miftah Ismail did not say that military helped remove imran khan from power.Three separate sentences were spliced together, which inaccurately portrayed his views as supporting Imran Khan.Miftah Ismail is a member of the Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PMLN), a part of the democratic coalition in government, while Imran Khan is the leader of the opposition. It is uncharacteristic for Miftah Ismail to profess this level of support for the PTI Chairman. Ismail rejected this headline in a tweet from his official Twitter account. He stated that the headline was false and clickbait, as it twisted three half-sentences to mean the opposite of what he said.
A viral Twitter shows a doctored Image of PTI worker holding gun is photoshopped and not from 2023.The image is doctored; the man pictured is not holding a weapon. Moreover, the picture is from a 2014 PTI protest in Islamabad.On 8 March 2023, journalist Mubasher Lucman posted an image on Twitter with the caption, “PTI is a law-abiding party.” The image features a man purportedly holding a weapon in a van of Lahore Transport Company.The image was posted on 8 March during a PTI rally where party workers and police clashed in Lahore.Fact Check conducted a reverse image search on Google Lens and found a news story published on 15 August 2014 by eNCA, also known as eNews Channel Africa.
Shaukat Tarin was not arrested by the Federal Investigation Agency but he has been charged and may be taken into custody in the near future.In August 2022, two audio clips surfaced of a telephone conversation between PTI Senator Shaukat Tarin instructing party ministers in KPK and Punjab not to commit to a provincial surplus to the IMF and federal government, in light of the recent floods that wreaked havoc in Pakistan. As a result, the FIA Cyber Crime Wing Islamabad formally launched an inquiry against Tarin over the leaked audio clip of purported telephonic conversation.To verify the claim, Soch Fact Check investigated multiple sources, including news reports and official statements. We that Tarin has not been arrested.Fact Check investigated multiple sources, including news reports and official statements. We that Tarin has not been arrested.
The photo which claim that DG ISI attended funeral of General Pervez Musharraf.January 2023 is misleading as it is the photo in which the DG ISI attended the funeral prayers of two martyred officers of the Punjab Counter-Terrorism Department.The former general, 79, died on 5 February 2023 at a hospital in Dubai after a prolonged illness.We found the original photo in an article by The Express Tribune, published on 4 January 2023 and titled, “Funeral prayers offered for martyred CTD officers.”The picture shows Anjum attending the funeral prayers of two martyred officers of the Punjab Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD), Director Naveed Sadiq Sial and Inspector Nasir Abbas. The CTD officers were shot dead by one or multiple unidentified suspects in the parking space of a hotel near Pirowal, Khanewal district, on 3 January 2023.
Shahid Khaqan Abbasi did not quit Pakistan Muslim League (N) as the news falsely claim on facebook and Twitter to announce that Shahid Khaqan Abbasi of Pakistan Muslim League – Nawaz (PMLN) had officially left the party in order to create a new one. Shahid Khaqan Abbasi remains a senior leader within the PMLN and a close ally of Imran Khan.On 20 January 2023 several social media users took to Some of these videos speculate that Shahid Khaqan Abbasi has taken this decision with Miftah Ismail. On 28 January 2022, PMLN leader Ahsan Iqbal confirmed that Shahid Khaqan Abbasi is still a member of PMLN, and any news regarding his departure is false. Through reverse image searches, we found that most social media users were sourcing this information from a Neo News tweet published on 18 January 2023 but shortly deleted afterwards. However, in this short time, it was viewed by over 1200 social media users, who eventually spread it to other platforms without any further verification.
TLP did not protest against inflation in January 2023 as the viral claim in a video is false. The video is from a 2020 protest organized by TLP against alleged blasphemy in Karachi. The video circulating online is from 2020, when religious clerics protested against blasphemy.Fact Check ascertained that Haq did not make any such statement about ending corruption with PPP during the presser.
Maulana Yousaf Jamil has clarified in a video statement that he is fine and has not been in an accident. The viral image is, in fact, of Maulana Azad Jameel, who was indeed wounded in a car crash in May 2019. Therefore, the pictures are more than three years old.Jameel is also a Pakistani religious scholar whose voice and tone appear to sound very similar to Maulana Tariq Jameel’s.Maulana Yousaf Jamil — the son of Maulana Tariq Jamil — posted a video statement on Facebook on 3 January 2023, clarifying that he is safe and fine and has not been in any accident.We found a video from 4 September 2019 in which Jameel is seen with a bandage on his nose, indicating that he was recovering from his injuries a few months ago. The clip — titled “Molana Azad Jameel After Accident” — was posted by YouTube channel Wel Come.
Capela dos Ossos, which is not a church but a chapel, is built from the skulls of around 1,000 devoted monks, not 5,000 Muslims. The chapel’s construction was intended to reflect the impermanence of life on earth.Fact Check was forwarded a viral and false WhatsApp message written in Urdu and wrongly claiming that a church in Portugal constructed using the skulls of 5,000 Muslims has been opened to tourists. The text further alleges that the development is part of a wider conspiracy against Muslims and Islamic countries, including Pakistan, Turkey, Malaysia, Qatar, Iran, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Saudi Arabia.
The posts circulating on Facebook regarding the conversion of a “Cathedral Church into Masjid” by the Russian government are false. The Moscow Cathedral Mosque was established by the Muslim Board of Russia in September 2015. On 7 January 2022, Facebook page Pakistan Republic shared a false post with the caption, “In a video shared by Times of Islamabad: the Russian President Vladimir Putin is converting the Moscow’s Cathedral Church into Masjid and later handed over to the Grand Mufti of Russia in the inauguration ceremony of Moscow Cathedral Mosque”. Fact Check found the news to be false and misleading as the Moscow Cathedral Mosque was established in September 2015 by the Russian Government. According to an RT News report from 2015, the Mosque was first established in 1904. Plans to completely reconstruct the mosque broke ground in 2011 and the Mosque was officially reopened to the public in 2015.
Extreme weather events are increasing across the globe, especially in North America, Europe and Asia, according to the Summary for Policymakers report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).On 2 September 2022, Talk TV, a recently launched British TV channel, posted a video clip in a tweet captioned, “Julia and poverty campaigner Asad Rehman come to blows over whether man-made climate change has caused Pakistan’s extreme floods". On a popular 24/7 British channel, journalist Julia Hartley-Brewer claimed that climate change is not leading to extreme weather events across the globe, and she argued her stance with Asad Rehman, a climate change activist from Pakistan. Soch Fact Check proves that she was wrong, and contrary to her claim that the IPCC reports support her statement, they do not.
Clouds did not come down to the ground in Dera Ismail Khan as the video is, in fact, not from the summer 2022 monsoon season in Pakistan, nor is it from Dera Ismail Khan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa but Balochistan. It was originally uploaded online in March 2016.On 21 August 2022, Twitter user DoN of Dubai (@ShahidM98387558) shared a video showing people running in a market as sudden darkness engulfs the area and vehicles at the scene turn on their headlights. The caption accompanying the clip, when translated to English, is as follows:“Astaghfirullah [May God forgive us], Astaghfirullah, Astaghfirullah,Clouds suddenly came down in Dera Ismail Khan and people started running away in fear.”Dera Ismail Khan is a city in Pakistan’s northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Posts wrongly claim most countries in the world dump their waste in Pakistan. When it comes to global waste, the United States was the largest importer of plastic waste according to the World Trade Organization in 2019, after China launched new policies to ban the import and dumping of waste from other countries in 2016. According to data from the European Union, in 2019, Turkey and the United Kingdom were themselves prominent destinations for EU waste exports, with Turkey still being the destination for most of the EU’s waste. In 2020, Turkey received 14.38 metric tonnes of waste from the EU, with Pakistan receiving only 1.36 metric tonnes from the EU the same year. Contrary to posts circulating online, Pakistan is not a top destination for global waste, and neither do most countries send their waste to Pakistan. This is confirmed by statistics from the World Trade Organisation and the European Union.
The immune system cannot be modified significantly by the consumption of any specific food, locusts or otherwise. Adhering to a healthy diet on the whole is the only way to provide ongoing support to the immune system.On June 24 2020, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf MNA Riaz Fatyana said the “common theory” that eating locusts results in increased immunity against Covid-19 should be investigated by the government. Soch Fact Check was unable to locate any references to the locusts-boosting-immunity theory online before it was shared by Fatyana in parliament. Although locusts are high in protein, there is no evidence that any food in particular boosts immunity to the point where you are better protected against infection and disease, according to the Harvard Medical School.
After many countries around the globe put their citizens under lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, a number of viral social media posts and news stories have popped up, highlighting the apparent benefits that may come from everyone staying at home. Shutting down factories and workplaces has resulted in a significant decrease in air pollution. On the other hand, this may have unintended consequences such as worsening the impact of heat waves, as pollution reflects some of the sun’s heat away from the earth.Although viral claims have attributed the repairing Ozone layer to Covid-19 lockdowns, the hole in the Ozone layer formed and healed purely due to yearly meteorological events.
There is no evidence to support this claim that Drinking water vinegar and salt can eliminate COVID-19.There has been an outpouring of misinformation and disinformation after the 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in December. An image recently circulated on social media through WhatsApp and Facebook claims that the COVID-19 remains in the recipient’s throat for four days before infecting the entire body, and therefore one should gargle with a mixture of warm water, salt and vinegar to keep the virus at bay. Upon some research.There is no scientific proof that correlates warm water and saline with mitigating effects of the virus in the human body. The world health organisation clearly states in an infographic about corona that “there is no evidence that regularly rinsing the nose with saline has protected people from the new coronavirus.”
Article 154 (3) of the Constitution of Pakistan states that the Council of Common Interests “shall have a permanent Secretariat and shall meet at least once in 90 days.” The Council last gathered for a meeting on November 19, 2018. On August 18, 2019, after launching a tree plantation drive, Sindh Chief Minister, Syed Murad Ali Shah, MPA, made the following claim whilst assessing the PTI governments first year performance.
The claim that medicine prices have gone up by 200% in the past 11 months is untrue as during the past 11 months, prices of medicines, on the average, have gone up by 9.8%.The Consumer Price Indices (CPI) of the past 11 months (August 2018 to June 2019), provided by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics, shows that our price index for medicines in August 2018 stood at 178.61, while in June 2019, it was recorded at 196.13 which translates into an increase of 9.8% in prices. The price increase in question was brought by the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) through issuance of SRO 1608(I)/2018, SRO 1609(I)/2018, SRO 1610(I)/2018 and SRO 34 (I)/2019 during the incumbent government’s tenure. The first three increased the prices only for certain hardship drugs. The last SRO only allows a 9% increase for hardship drugs and 15% for remaining drugs.Thus, while drug prices have indeed risen, those of certain hardship drugs disproportionately so, her claim that medicine prices have risen over 200 per cent in the past 11 months is false.
Mayor Karachi, Mr. Waseem Akhtar, has, indeed set up the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation’s Citizens Complaints Information System Complaint . He inaugurated the upgraded Citizens Complaints Information System helpline, 1339, at the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) on October 7, 2017. In addition to that, Karachi Water & Sewerage Board also has a complaint cell.
The first case of mpox in Pakistan has been confirmed by the National Institute of Health in the capital Islamabad. A traveler who recently arrived in Pakistan tested positive and has been isolated at a hospital in the capital, along with other individuals who are being tested, a health ministry press release said. There is no evidence of localized transmission of the viral disease in Pakistan, the NIH added.
There was no pro-Pakistan sloganeering in the college bus Saharanpur students . According to them, the students were having fun and shouting slogans in support of their teachers ‘Zaid Sir’ and ‘Monis Sir'. The teachers revealed that on February 3, they were traveling with their students to J V Jain College to participate in the ‘UP Global Investors Summit – 2023′. Since both the teachers were students’ favourites, the students chanted their names in the bus. They clarified that the students never raised any objectionable slogans like ‘Pakistan Zindabad’.Teachers and students informed that the university recorded the statements of more than 30 students who were inside the bus, along with the bus driver and teachers. Everyone categorically denied that any objectionable slogans like ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ were being chanted in the bus.
In February 2021, an image supposedly showing musician Rihanna holding the flag of Pakistan circulated on social media which is not genuine .This fake photo was created by altering an image of Rihanna at an ICC 2019 World Cup cricket match between the West Indies and Sri Lanka. In the genuine photograph, Rihanna is holding a flag in support of the West Indies team. The International Cricket Council shared the genuine photograph to their Twitter account on July 1, 2019.
Questions about Obama's birthplace have long been settled. However, a new "birther" controversy arose during the 2016 presidential election, holding that Donald Trump was actually born in Pakistan. Furthermore, Trump released his birth certificate in 2013 after a social media spat with comedian Bill Maher. Donald trump was born on 14 June 1946 in Queens, New York (not Pakistan), and he was named Donald John Trump not Dawood Ibrahim Khan.
On 27 January 2017, President Trump signed a controversial executive order suspending entry into the U.S. for 90 days of travelers from seven countries "of concern": Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. A week later, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order blocking portions of that executive order from being enforced.The web site USA Television capitalized on that controversy by pumping out a series of nearly identical fake news articles, each holding that President Trump had "signed a visa-free travel policy" for residents of a given country, ostensibly to "strengthen trade" with that country which is totally a fake and incorrect news.
on June 11, the Anti-Corruption Establishment Punjab also tweeted a complaint lodged against Dr Uzma Khan and her husband, which stated that a “mega corruption scandal” of the former prime minister’s family has been “exposed”.The current market price of 5,261 kanals of land in the Chaubara area of Layyah is approximately Rs131 million to Rs 500 million not Rs6 billion, several real estate agents, government officials and residents in the area.Two residents of the Nawan Kot village said, on the condition of anonymity, that if an owner does not have possession documentation then the person can sell the land for a price of Rs200,000 per acre, or Rs25,000 per kanal.Using the above rate of the land, the worth of 5,261 kanals of land comes out to an estimated Rs 131 million
The lawmakers, who travelled to Saudi Arabia for Hajj on June 25, paid for their own airfare and didn't use public funds, a senior official of the state-owned Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), which arranged the special flight, confirmed.“PIA has not given any free ticket to anyone for the flight,” Abdullah Hafeez Khan, the spokesperson of the PIA confirmed, “The parliamentarians came and got the tickets from our office. It was paid for All of them.”On June 24, Pakistan’s Finance Minister Ishaq Dar told the National Assembly that the government had arranged a special flight for parliamentarians who wished to travel for Hajj on June 25, for which he added, an agreement had to be made with Saudi Arabia.Pakistan had launched special flights for pilgrims in the first week of June. The last flight was to depart on June 20. However, some lawmakers, who wanted to leave for Saudi Arabia for the religious ritual, missed their flights due to an ongoing budget session in Pakistan.
The AFP news shows a terrifying misleading video of torrential rainfall that do not reflect the actual weather conditions in Karachi before or during the cyclone Biparjoy. The video shows calm sea and winds, old footage of a dust storm, and unrelated footage of heavy rainfall. The video is false. On 14 June 2023, ABP News, an Indian news channel, posted a video titled “Biparjoy storm’s tremendous impact seen in Karachi”. The video claimed to show the impact of the cyclone on Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city, which was expected to be hit by the storm. The video has over 1.2 million views as of 27 June 2023.However, the video, which includes visuals of torrential rainfall and extreme winds, contains several errors and inconsistencies that cast doubt on its authenticity and accuracy.
A misleading video went viral that falsely shows a Muslim sniper during 2023 France riots. On 30 June 2023, Twitter account @ConvictFluffy posted a video of what appears to be a sniper positioned atop a building, falsely claiming it is from France.The video was first posted in 2022 by @Adaminho, who captioned the video as follows: “Sniper de la cité; it has no link to the 2023 France riots.
The 9-year-old Hindu girl Reshma in the viral image was saved from a child marriage marriage by the Kashmore police but was not abducted not abducted and forcefully converted from Hinduism to Islam.. Her parents had sold her to the man in the picture for PKR 25,000. IGP Dr Jamil Ahmed had tweeted about the case back in 2019. On 24 May 2023, Twitter user @JIX5A shared an image showing a minor girl child dressed as a bride next to a middle-aged man wearing a Muslim cap.A viral image of a young Hindu girl child forcefully abducted and converted to Islam is false as the young girl was forced into an underage marriage, but she was not forcibly converted.
Chatbots such as ChatGPT and Google BARD are large language models that can generate text based on a given input but cannot produce activation keys for Microsoft Windows. Activation keys are uniquely generated and verified by Microsoft, and chatbots do not have access to Microsoft’s database of activation keys, nor can they guess them randomly.On 16 June 2023, Twitter user @immasiddtweets posted a fake tweet (archive) claiming that he had used Chat GPT to generate a valid activation key for Windows 10 Pro. He also lied that he had used OpenAI ChatGPT and Google’s BARD chatbots to generate a valid activation key for Windows 11. He attached screenshots of his chat with the chatbots and the activation windows of the operating systems.
Hrithik Roshan did not voice support for Imran Khan.A clip from an old interaction of Roshan with his fans has been doctored. The actor has not actually made any comments regarding Imran Khan or voiced his support for the politician.On 11 May 2023, Facebook user Sohag Ali Zaman falsely shared a video with the claim that actor Hrithik Roshan has requested his fans to support Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf chief Imran Khan following his arrest on 9 May.
The video showing the APTMA chief asking Ishaq Dar to help the textile industry is not from 2023. The old video resurfaced with a false claim.The claim is false because the video is not from 2023. The video was shared as early as 2017 and has been making rounds on social media ever since. On 1 April 2023, the Former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly and member of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) posted a video on Twitter.All Pakistan Textile Mills Association (APTMA) is an association for the textile industry in Pakistan, representing over 400 textile mills working in the country. 


Ishaq Dar was back in the country on 25 January.While Dar had flown to Doha to meet with his Qatari counterpart, he was back in the country on 25 January. On 25 January, economist and writer Yousuf Nazar tweeted that he believed Pakistan’s finance minister Ishaq Dar was still in Qatar. The tweet came as the Pakistani Rupee (PKR) continued to depreciate, and the possibility of a sovereign default loomed closer and Fact Checker found this to be false. While Dar had been in Doha on 24 January to meet with Qatar’s finance minister, he was back in Pakistan the following day and was present at multiple meetings in Islamabad.Nazar’s tweet was viewed over 32,000 times, liked by 435 accounts, and retweeted 84 times. All 11 quote retweets reaffirmed the claim that Dar was in Qatar and were viewed a total of 6,642 times.
News bulletin claiming Sharif’s stole cutlery from a hotel is fake.No such claim was made by the hotel management. The screenshots of 92 News and BBC News headlines claiming so are doctored.The tweet was written in Urdu and condemned the Sharif family and their supporters over the alleged theft of expensive cutlery from a Saudi hotel.
A video that purportedly shows PML-N leader Khurram Dastgir Khan snubbing ANP leader Aimal Wali Khan by refusing to hug him during a political meeting is cropped and taken out of context. Other videos from the same meeting show that the two leaders did embrace. The claim was made by several journalists on Twitter and was refuted by ANP’s official account. On 14 June 2023, Journalist @NadiaMirza_ shared a video of politicians Khurram Dastgir Khan and Aimal Wali Khan.The video shows Aimal Wali Khan approaching Khurram Dastgir Khan with his arms open, but Khurram Dastgir Khan shakes his hand instead. The tweet was shared after a meeting of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of opposition parties.
The Australian parliament did not ban military generals from Pakistan.The tweet received 13,166 interactions on Twitter and reached 75,268 followers. fact checker searched the words “Pakistan”, “army”, “general”, and “ban” in different formations on the official website of the Australian parliament and found several search results, none of them containing any notice of a discussion within the parliament with regards to banning a list of Pakistani army generals from entry into the country. We made this search limited to May and June 2023. Most of the search results were documented parliamentary discussions on the assimilation of Afghan refugees immigrating to Australia from Pakistan.
PTI’s PP 273 candidate is Mian Muhammad Imran and he did not return his ticket.PTI’s PP 273 candidate was not Mian Alamdar Qureshi; it was Iqbal Patafi, who is still contesting for the same constituency and for the same party. On 20 April 2023, former prime minister and PPP leader Yousuf Raza Gilani’s son Kasim Gilani shared a tweet claiming that Pakistan Tehreek e Insaf’s MPA and election ticket holder for the constituency PP 273 Mian Alamdar Qureshi has returned the party ticket and is now running from Pakistan People’s Party’s platform. Gilani’s tweet was shared with 38,934 followers and received over 1610 interactions while being viewed 126,200 times on Twitter.
A false claim that on January 1, 2021, a new law took effect in Pakistan requiring men to have two marriages mandatory has been viewed more than 5 million times on TikTok. The claim is likely satirical , similar claims have circulated in satirical posts in previous years and no such law was enacted in January 2021.The video was published here on TikTok on November 5, 2020. The superimposed fake Urdu text on the video translates to English as: “Lawyers of Pakistan, Marriage Bill passed. Two marriages declared mandatory, permission from the first wife is not necessary. Will take effect from 1st January, 2021. Notifications follow.”


A screenshot purporting to be an article in Pakistan's Dawn newspaper with the headline that a pilot was caught urinating inside a fighter jet, is photoshopped and fake. BOOM found that the viral screenshot is fake as no such article was published by the Pakistani daily. The headline of the viral screenshot reads, "Pilot pissing in the cockpit of PAF F-16 said urine increases efficiency of jets told by Allah in his dream."The photo is being shared with sarcastic takes and the caption reads, "Pakistan Air Force..Pride F 16 & Pilot.." 

Netizens claim that Muslims in Pakistan have started the ‘Mandir Banao’ campaign after a Hindu temple was destroyed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.Some netizens claim that Muslims in Pakistan started the “Mandir Banao” campaign after the Hindu temple was destroyed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The pictures are being circulated with captions such as: Muslims in Pakistan started “ Mandir Banao ” campaign after Hindu temple destroyed in a remote village of northeast Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province,. How many Hindus in India started “ Masjid Banao ” campaign after Babri Masjid destroyed in 1992??
A fake quote in which Pakistani Prime Minister, Imran Khan purportedly said, 'will not provide corona vaccine to Israel or India if Pakistan develops one' goes viral.Many social media handles are claiming that Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan said, "If Pakistan develops a corona vaccine, it will never give it to Israel or India".No media reports on Imran Khan's purported statement, 'not providing coronavirus vaccine to India or Israel if vaccine developed by Pakistan,' were found. On December 13, 2020, Indian Express reported, Pakistan has increased the fund allocated for purchasing coronavirus vaccine from USD 150 million to USD 250 million.


Pakistan PM Imran Khan did not give this statement about covid-19 vaccine, viral claim is fake.A fake quote in which Pakistani Prime Minister, Imran Khan purportedly said, 'will not provide corona vaccine to Israel or India if Pakistan develops one' goes viral.Many social media handles are claiming that Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan said, "If Pakistan develops a corona vaccine, it will never give it to Israel or India".No media reports on Imran Khan's purported statement, 'not providing coronavirus vaccine to India or Israel if vaccine developed by Pakistan,' were found. On December 13, 2020, Indian Express reported, Pakistan has increased the fund allocated for purchasing coronavirus vaccine from USD 150 million to USD 250 million. 


Pakistani Journalist not Praising PM Narendra Modii.the person in the viral clip is Harshavardhan Jain, an Indian motivational speaker and not a Pakistani journalist. A clip of a motivational speaker praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being shared on social media with a false claim that he is a Pakistani journalist. fact checkers reached out to the motivational speaker - Harshvardhan Jain, whose team member confirmed that he is an Indian motivational speaker and not from Pakistan.
A photo of flooding at a national monument in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore has been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter days ahead of a planned political opposition rally in the venue in December 2020. The photo was circulated alongside a claim the Pakistan government flooded the venue with water in order to prevent the rally from being held there however the claim is false. The photo has circulated online since at least 2019, when Lahore was hit by heavy rain during the monsoon season.
A video of people raising pro-Pakistan and pro-Khalistan slogans is doing the rounds on social media is is more than a year old and is from an anti-Modi protest held in New York in 2019 not for ongoing farmers' agitation in Delhi. . It is being said that the video is of people protesting in London in support of the farmers' agitation in India. A few men in the group can also be seen wearing turbans. India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the claim is false. This video is from a 2019 anti-Modi rally held in New York City, US.With the help of reverse image search of the video keyframes, we found that the same video was uploaded in November 2019 by multiple social media handles. The Facebook page of a Pakistani media organisation, Daily Jiddat Karachi, had also uploaded the same video.
Pakistani social media posts share fake claim after group arrested for selling fake medical college exam paper. Several photos have been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts which claim they show leaked copies of an entrance exam for a medical college in Pakistan. The posts also feature a photo of a handcuffed man alongside a claim he was detained for his involvement in the leak. The claim is misleading. Pakistani authorities denied the exam paper was leaked and said several people were arrested for allegedly selling fake test sheets. the structure of the purported test seen in the posts does not correspond with the structure of sample tests on the Pakistan Medical Commission's website.
This footage shows a tsunami that hit Japan in 2011, not a flood in Pakistan in 2020.A video that shows cars being washed away by floodwaters has been shared repeatedly in multiple Facebook posts which claim it shows adverse weather in Pakistan on December 2, 2020. The claim is false; the footage shows a tsunami that hit Japan in 2011. The text superimposed on the three-minute, 26-second video reads: “Karachi Pakistan today” The post’s Sinhala-language caption translates to English as: “May all the people in the world be protected”.The claim is false; the footage actually shows a tsunami that hit Japan in 2011.
Hoax circulates online that Afghanistan announced $30 million Covid-19 aid package for Pakistan which is not true.An image of a purported news report by a Pakistani broadcaster has been shared hundreds of times in November 2020 alongside a claim that Afghanistan announced a $30 million aid package for Pakistan during the Covid-19 pandemic as the claim is false. the Pakistani broadcaster whose logo was shown in the posts told AFP it had not aired the purported segment; the Pakistani government also said the claim was “fake news”.
Several people on social media are falsely claiming that Pakistani cricket's evergreen mascot Chaudhry Abdul Jalil, better known as Chacha Cricket, is no more as he's alive. A Facebook falsely user wrote, "Pakistani Cricket Chacha is no more with us. RIP. May Allah Raise his Ranks in Jannah (Ameen)." What's the truth behind the claim?.Pakistani cricket's evergreen mascot Chaudhry Abdul Jalil, better known as Chacha Cricket is widely recognised for attending every Pakistani cricket match. He is known for his distinct style - a green kurta-pyjama and green hat adorned with a sequined star and crescent moon - that he wears to all matches.
Pakistanis Share Old Image With False Claims Of Their Army 'Killing 28 Indian Soldiers' In Recent Ambushes.On November 13, Pakistani troops resorted to multiple ceasefire violations along LOC between URI and Gurez sectors in Jammu and Kashmir. The ceasefire violations by Pakistan army led to deaths of five Indian soldiers and six civilians, while many were injured. The Indian army also retaliated killing eight Pakistani soldiers and injuring 12 others along with causing heavy damage to their infrastructure. These infrastructures include Pakistan Army bunkers, fuel dumps and terrorist launch pads across the LoC.In context to this, many Pakistani Twitter handles are sharing the image of coffins shrouded with Indian flags with the caption, "Reportedly yesterday's score was 28. Well done boys. Keep it up."
The viral video of Sikh raising slogans to demand a separate nation for Kashmir and Punjab is from the ongoing farmers protest.In backdrop ongoing of farmers' protest in Delhi, several right-wing ideologues are sharing a video of Sikhs raising pro-Kashmir and pro-Khalistan slogan, "Imran Khan Zindabad, Kashmir Banega Pakistan, Punjab Banega Khalistan, Nara-e-Takbeer Allahu Akbar (Hail Imran Khan, Kashmir will become Pakistan, Punjab will become Khalistan, Let us consolidate, Allah is great)." The video is being shared with the claim that Sikhs protesting against the farm laws are raising these slogans. The video is being shared to defame the farmers' protest and portray that the farmers' protest is being used as a veil to hide the ulterior motive of a separate state for Sikhs, Khalistan.
An old video from Maharashtra where anti Pakistan slogans were raised during Ganpati Visarjan is being falsely shared as recent celebrations in the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus. BOOM was able to trace the video to a Ganesh visarjan (immersion) procession in Thane near Mumbai organised by a Hindu Jagruti Mandal. The viral video shows a procession of people waving saffron coloured flags, dancing and raising expletive filled slogans against Pakistan. The slogans abusing Pakistan also demand supporters of Afzal Guru be sent to Pakistan and supporters of Pakistan be sent to the graveyard (kabristan). Another slogan states that Ram mandir will be built on its location and the saffron flag will be unfurled in Pakistan. 

Google has not yet opened its office in Pakistan; claim made in viral images is fake.Google has not opened its first office in Pakistan. The pictures shared with the post are from Google’s store by SSZ Tech Pvt Ltd, an authorized reseller in Lahore.investigation revealed the claim is fake. Google Press Team refuted the claims. Pakistan Journalists confirmed to us that the images in the viral post are from Google’s store by a private seller in Lahore, Pakistan.
A misleading video, viral on the social media, falsely claims that a Pakistani flag was raised at a Congress victory rally in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district in Teori village. a Pakistan Flag Was Not Waved at a Congress Rally in Rajasthan. A local resident and the police denied reports of a Pakistan flag having been raised at a rally in the village.
Unrelated photos shared in online posts about deadly bombing at Islamic school in Pakistan.Two photos went viral one showing a pen and a pencil lying in a pool of blood and another showing an injured child — have been shared falsely thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim they reveal the aftermath of a bombing at an Islamic seminary in the Pakistani city of Peshawar in October 2020. The claim, however, is false in which the photos shows aftermath of a bombing at an islamic seminary, circulated online in unrelated reports since August 2018 and January 2020 respectively.
BJP Min Falsely Claims Pakistan Zindabad Slogans Raised in Assam. 
In reality, AIUDF supporters were saying “Aziz Khan Zindabad” to welcome member of parliament Aziz Khan.BJP leader and Assam health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, tweeted a video on 6 November, Friday, claiming that it showed supporters of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) raising "Pakistan zindabad" slogans at Silchar Airport in Assam. However, we found that the AIUDF supporters were saying "Aziz Khan zindabad" to welcome Aziz Ahmed Khan, who is an AIUDF Member of Legislative assembly (MLA).
Pakistan Zindabad Slogans Were not Raised At Silchar Airport As Claimed By BJP Leaders.BJP leader Himanta Biswas Sarma's claim of raising the pro-Pakistan slogan by AIUDF at Silchar airport is false.Himanta Biswa Sa rma, a BJP MLA from Assam shared a false and misleading video claiming that All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) raised slogans of 'Pakistan Zindabad' while welcoming their party Chief Badruddin Ajmal at Silchar airport.Other BJP MLAs Rajdeep Roy and Ashok Singhal also shared the same video slamming AIUDF for raising slogans of 'Pakistan Zindabad'.Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIDUF) have joined hands along with Left Front to contest in Assam Assembly election 2021. The tweets have been shared with the context of this. The news was picked up by many media houses who also shared the news.
Several Indian news outlets along with popular Twitter handles misreported the sloganeering done during Pakistan parliament proceedings. News channels India TV and Times Now, right-wing website OpIndia, and several prominent social media handles shared a video of parliamentary proceedings in Pakistan from Monday, to falsely claim that members of parliament were chanting 'Modi, Modi' slogans.
But in real , Opposition MPs were chanting 'Voting, Voting', to call for voting on an anti-government resolution, which has been misleadingly presented as chants of 'Modi, Modi' in the Pakistan parliament by the Indian mainstream and social media. 
Reports In Indian Media On France Revoking Visas Of 183 Pakistani Nationals Are False. Indian media fall for a fake Twitter account and falsely reported that passports of 183 Pakistani nationals were deported by France after Pakistan's PM Imran Khan's 'anti-French remark'. DNA news reported that France has also forcibly deported 118 Pakistani nationals despite having all the valid documents. The news also said that Pakistan consulate in Paris has requested to allow former ISI Chief, Ahmed Shuja Pasha's sister to stay temporarily as she has come to France to see her sick mother-in-law. 
This image of a rally in Pakistan has been doctored to digitally insert an Indian flag. An image appearing to show an Indian flag raised at a political rally in the Pakistani city of Karachi has been shared multiple times on Facebook and Twitter ,however, the image has been digitally manipulated; the original photo shows no Indian flag waving in the crowd.The post’s caption translated as: “Hail Mother India / Hail India. A reverse image search on Google found that the original photo shows no Indian flag raised in the crowd.
An image is being shared on social media hailing the wittiness of Indian Air Force purportedly mocking Pakistan's statement over Balakot strike. After Balakot strike, Pakistan gave a statement that in the strike no damage was done. Balakot strike was done on February 26 by India as retaliation to Pulwama attack in which 40 army personnel were killed. While India claimed that in Balakot strike had done damage to Pakistan. Major General Asif Ghafoor denied the claims by India and said no damage was done. The post is an image of a fighter jet with the caption, "Admire the IAF sense of humour. They are trolling the Pakis for admitting that only 4 trees and one crow were the casualties in the Balakot Strike!".
Dispute over Pakistani opposition politician's arrest sparks false claims of civil war. After Pakistani media reported on a dispute between police and the army over the arrest of an opposition politician in Karachi, scores of Facebook and Twitter posts claimed Pakistan was on the brink of civil war. The posts were amplified by mainstream Indian media, which broadcast false and misleading information, including reports that ten police officers had been killed. While Pakistan’s army and police did have a disagreement over the politician’s arrest, the government said no shots were fired and dismissed reports of civil war as “malicious and fabricated”. The misleading posts used old and unrelated photos; Pakistan has requested that Twitter remove accounts spreading misinformation about the incident.
old pictures from Pakistan and Syria have been used to build a fake narrative of civil war in Karachi.A set of old and unrelated photos from Pakistan and Syria are viral on social media with false captions claiming that they show the condition of a 'civil-war torn Karachi'. BOOM found that the pictures are old and do not show the present-day situation in the Pakistani city. We also found that some of the pictures in the viral post are not from Karachi. The pictures are viral in the backdrop of recent political crisis in Pakistan.
old pictures from Pakistan and Syria have been used to build a fake narrative of civil war in Karachi.A set of old and unrelated photos from Pakistan and Syria are viral on social media with false captions claiming that they show the condition of a 'civil-war torn Karachi'. BOOM found that the pictures are old and do not show the present-day situation in the Pakistani city. We also found that some of the pictures in the viral post are not from Karachi. The pictures are viral in the backdrop of recent political crisis in Pakistan.
An altered image is being shared on the internet to suggest that the Indian flag was waved at a rally in Karachi.That’s Not the Indian Flag at a Protest Rally in Pakistan viral image from a protest rally in Pakistan’s Karachi is doing the rounds on social media with a claim that it shows protesters in the crowd waving the Indian tricolour However, we found that the image was photoshopped to add the Indian flag.
A photo is being shared widely on social media with the claim that India flag was waved at a rally in Karachi (Pakistan) In original photo, there is no India flag. Similar looking flags in the photo show the flag of Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party (Pakistan). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of 11 opposition parties, held a rally against the government in Karachi (Pakistan) recently.When searched with the keywords on the internet, an uncropped version of the posted photo was found to be tweeted by the official Twitter handle of Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz). In the photo, it can be observed that there is no India flag in the highlighted area.
A photo is being shared widely on social media with the claim that India flag was waved at a rally in Karachi (Pakistan) In original photo, there is no India flag. Similar looking flags in the photo show the flag of Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party (Pakistan). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of 11 opposition parties, held a rally against the government in Karachi (Pakistan) recently.When searched with the keywords on the internet, an uncropped version of the posted photo was found to be tweeted by the official Twitter handle of Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz). In the photo, it can be observed that there is no India flag in the highlighted area.
A photo is being shared widely on social media with the claim that India flag was waved at a rally in Karachi (Pakistan) In original photo, there is no India flag. Similar looking flags in the photo show the flag of Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party (Pakistan). Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of 11 opposition parties, held a rally against the government in Karachi (Pakistan) recently.When searched with the keywords on the internet, an uncropped version of the posted photo was found to be tweeted by the official Twitter handle of Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz). In the photo, it can be observed that there is no India flag in the highlighted area.
In social networking sites and WhatsApp, a message is being circulated which claims that Muslim Regiment denied fighting against Pakistan in 1965 war which is false. The truth is Muslim regiment never existed.Social Media is trending with the claim that the Muslim regiment of the Indian army had refused to fight in India's 1965 war with Pakistan. They are using this claim to question the loyalty of Muslims towards the nation and also the ability of Muslims to serve the nation once they become IAS or IPS officers.In a Facebook group R.S.S , the post with the claim has 1.6k shares.The post has also gone viral on Twitter too. Twitter handle @DK_Dube shared it, which was retweeted 466 times.On going through the list of regiments in the Indian army., the Logical Indian found out that there was no Muslim regiment in the Indian army. Earlier, the Indian Army had caste-based division during the British era. 
Doctored Photo Of Pakistani Religious Leader Fazal-ur-Rehman, With Alcohol Shared With False Claim.The Logical Indian Fact check team investigates that false claim. he viral photos show Rehman inside an aeroplane sitting with a bottle of Jack Daniel's, a whiskey brand kept on a side table beside him.The photo has been shared extensively on Twitter.A reverse image search of the photo led to a Facebook post which was posted on August 15, 2019, by a Facebook page named Jamiat Talba Islam.In this picture, Rehman is seen without the bottle and glass. The tabletop is empty.
Photos Of Rakhi Sawant With Pakistan Flag Viral With Misleading Claims, however Rakhi Sawant confirmed that the photograph was taken during the shooting of the film Mudda 370 J&K. Netizens have accused Sawant of being an anti-national because of posing with a Pakistan national flag. Several have also mistook the location in the image as Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). BOOM reached out to the actor who clarified that the photographs were taken as part of the shooting of the film Mudda 370 J&K.


A photo of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan standing in a line has been shared thousands of times on Facebook alongside a claim he queued like members of the public despite being the leader of the country however the claim is false . the photo of Khan has circulated online since at least 2017, before he was elected prime minister of Pakistan in August 2018. The photo of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has been shared nearly 3,000 times in this Facebook post published on August 20, 2020. The Urdu-language caption of the post translates as: “This man standing in a queue is not Nawaz Sharif who used to book the entire plane to go to London and America with his family with public money. This is Prime Minister of Pakistan Imran Khan. Imran Khan leaves for Karachi from Islamabad airport. See he is standing in the common people’s queue at the time of departure. This is new Pakistan. Love you Imran Khan.”
The viral video showing two women falling into a large gutter on the roadside is from Pakistan and not Delhi.A viral video on social media captures two women falling with claim that the incident happened in Delhi however the claim is fake and the incident happened in Pakistan, and not Delhi.This video is old and belongs to the NA-120 area,” said Sajjad Hussain Bhati, Executive Producer of the Capital TV.Facebook user Shashank Upadhyay – Shubham Pandit has shared the video with fake claim. Social scanning of his profile revealed that he belongs to Agra and has 11,888 followers.
The photo shows an accident involving of a bus in the Pakistani city of Multan in 2018 and not Peshawar in 2020.A photo of a bus stuck in a sinkhole has been shared on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim the vehicle was from a recently inaugurated fleet in the Pakistani city of Peshawar. The posts were shared thousands of times in August 2020. The claim is false; the photo shows an accident in the Pakistani city of Multan in 2018.The photo was published here by Dawn, a major Pakistani English-language newspaper, on May 13, 2018. The article is headlined "Bus trapped in sinkhole". It reports the accident occurred in Multan, a city about 550 kilometers (342 miles) south of Peshawar.
An image of a woman in salwar-kameez is viral with the false claims and rumours associated with her that she is a Pakistani teacher named Aasia Zubair who was suspended from a Lahore school for her “erotic figure” which is totally wrong. The woman in the photo is an Indian model. Also, no such incident was reported by credible sources from Pakistan.
The Video Of Burqa-Clad Liquor Smuggler Shared With False RSS Twist.viral video is from Andhra Pradesh and the people shown therein were not linked to RSS. 
A video showing police officials apprehending a burqa-clad person is viral with false captions claiming that the arrested man is a Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh member and was waving a Pakistani flag.OOM found that the claim was false and the man, along with his partners, was arrested for allegedly smuggling illegal liquor in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh. Chief Inspector (Excise) Lakshmi Durgaiah, who led the arrest, told BOOM that the accused were neither hoisting any flag nor did they have any known RSS connection.
A false viral video which shows a man taking his burqa off in front of policemen is being circulated on social media with the misleading claim that he is an RSS man. According to the claim, he was caught waving the Pakistani flag in a burqa to defame Muslims. however in an orignal news , police arrested the burqa-clad man along with others for smuggling illegal liquor to Andhra Pradesh from Telangana. The incident took place at Panchalingala check-post in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh.Therefore, the burqa-clad man is not an RSS worker held for waving a Pakistani flag, he was arrested for smuggling liquor in AP.

Tarek Fatah, a Pakistani-Canadian journalist, an author and a serial Fake news peddler, tweeted a video showing a group of Pakistani citizens uprooting newly-planted trees with a false claim that it's part of their religious practice.. According to Fateh, the video shows Pakistani's uprooting trees in order to better the practice of "killing infidel kaafirs". At the time of writing this report, the tweet has been shared over 4,000 times and garnered over 12,000 likes.The claim is false. The incident in the video is true and recent but there is an unnecessary communal angle being assigned to it.
A fake video went viral and shows Uprooting Saplings In Pakistan Viral With Islamophobic Claim. the video shows angry locals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa uprooting saplings to protest against the government as the saplings were planted over land where the ownership is in dispute. A video from Pakistan showing a frenzied group uprooting plant saplings and waving black flags, is being shared on social media with captions falsely claiming that the men were doing so as planting trees is against Islam.he incident took place on August 9, 2020 at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan where angry locals uprooted saplings as a mark of protests as the saplings were reportedly planted over land where the ownership is in dispute.
A piece of news is doing the rounds which say that a school in Ghatsila town of East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand had instructed its lower kindergarten (LKG) and under kindergarten (UKG) students to learn and practice national anthems of Pakistan and Bangladesh. The news is being given communal colour and it is being insinuated that Muslims have problem with saying "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" but love Pakistan.The claim is true. According to a Hindustan Times report published on 12 July, a private school in Ghatsila under East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand asked its lower kindergarten (LKG) and under kindergarten (UKG) students to learn and practice national anthems of Pakistan and Bangladesh. However, backlash from the parents forced the school to withdraw the online class curriculum in the WhatsApp group with immediate effect, the school management informed.
A viral video from November 2018 shows Pakistani and Chinese soldiers celebrating after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action at Galwan Valley which is wrong and is falsely linked to this incident .Following the violent clash at the Indo-China border in Galwan Valley, last month. India lost 20 soldiers in that clash, the Indian and Chinese authorities have been holding military talks to de-escalate the tension on the border. Amid this, a video which shows people in military wear enjoying is being circulated with the claim that Pakistan and China are celebrating and dancing after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action.A Google Reverse Image search was done by breaking the video into individual frames using InVid, a tool to analyse videos.This led to a YouTube channel 'Amyn Yar Baig' which had posted the same video back in November 2018. 




CNN News18 ran a nearly four-year-old video on Monday as a recent incident and falsely claimed that it showed a Chinese engineer caught on camera beating his Pakistani driver in Karachi.The television channel's misreporting comes at a time when an anti-China sentiment in India is high following a border clash between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley, Eastern Ladakh on June 15-16, 2020 which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers.The English news channel misreported the video as recent with one of its news anchors claiming that it shows a Chinese engineer working on the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) beating up a Pakistani engine driver in Karachi.In the tweet, the channel further claimed that the incident was linked to the fallout of a CPEC project which was not making the desired progress. 


Fake Notification From Punjab Govt Of Pakistan Banning Poultry due to the presence coronavirus Goes Viral. A notification seemingly issued by the Health Department of the Government of Punjab of Pakistan, is being circulated on social media platforms with the claim that an immediate ban has been ordered on poultry products due to the presence of COVID-19 virus in it.A keyword search on Twitter led to a tweet by the official account of the Deputy Commissioner, Islamabad. He clarified on the microblogging site that the notification was fake.


a viral photograph of a 2017 incident from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur suicidal case is viral with the false claim that shows muslim kill shoe maker Hindus in Pakistan which is not true.Twitter user Aqib Mir who claims to be a “BJP worker” on his bio shared a photograph of a family of four hung from a pipe inside a tin shed.The same photograph has been shared in the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak. A message claimed that the family committed suicide after the PM Modi-led government failed to give them relief. A simple reverse-image search leads one to multiple links of a case report on filicide-suicide, a category of homicide-suicide where the victims are children and the perpetrators are parents.
Misleading Post Shows Pakistani Soldiers Hunting For COVID-19 Patients. A video has been viewed thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim that it shows Pakistani security forces apprehending three men after they escaped from a COVID-19 quarantine centre as the claim is misleading; the footage has circulated in reports about a joint training exercise by Pakistani security forces and police outside a COVID-19 quarantine facility.It has been viewed more than 10,000 times and shared at least 742 times.The claim is misleading; Chiniot police told AFP the footage shows a training drill.
a viral photograph of a 2017 incident from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur suicidal case is viral with the false claim that shows Pakistani Muslim kill shoemaker Hindus in Pakistan which is not true.Twitter user Aqib Mir who claims to be a “BJP worker” on his bio shared a photograph of a family of four hung from a pipe inside a tin shed.The same photograph has been shared in the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak. A message claimed that the family committed suicide after the PM Modi-led government failed to give them relief. A simple reverse-image search leads one to multiple links of a case report on filicide-suicide, a category of homicide-suicide where the victims are children and the perpetrators are parents.
A CCTV footage of a bus accident from Pakistan is being shared with false claims that it captures the last moments of passengers onboard the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) flight PK 8303 that crashed on May 22, 2020. A PIA flight with 99 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport on May 22, 2020, in Karachi. The flight that took off from Lahore, crashed minutes before landing, with 97 reported deaths.In the viral clip, passengers are seated suddenly start panicking as the bus lurches and is being shared on Facebook with the caption, "Exclusive video. The video of pakistan international airline passenger plane that crushed with ninety passengers"


Social media posts claiming Pakistani cricketer Yasir Shah died in the Pakistan Airlines flight which crashed in Karachi, are false. BOOM reached out to Pakistan Cricket Board who said that the posts are false and that Shah was never on the plane that crashed. A Pakistan Airlines flight - PK 833 crashed in Model Colony near Jinnah international airport, Karachi. The flight with 85 passengers and six crew members was headed to Karachi from Lahore and is said to have crashed minutes before landing. According to media reports, 92 people have died due to the crash while two passengers have said to have survived the crash.
Republic TV, Times Now, ABP News Run Old Video that shows Pakistan army fire rocket from civilian area towards the India border during recent As Pak Ceasefire Violation
BOOM found that the viral video dates back to February 2019, and is being falsely being linked to the recent ceasefire violations reported along the Line of Control by Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir. We broke the video into key-frames and performed a reverse image search using Google Images, which showed that the video was old and dates back to February 2019. Several Pakistani Facebook users and pages had shared the 28 seconds video in February 2019, with the caption which when translated from Urdu reads, "Share as much as possible. In Azad Kashmir Pakistan Army blew up India's check post. Share If you are with Pakistan Army." 



Pakistan Zindabad' Was Not Chanted by SP members In Mumbai as the video shot from another angle proves supporters were chanting 'Sajid bhai Zindabad' and not Pakistan Zindabad. in the presence of leader Abu Asim Azmi.A video of Samajwadi Party (SP) supporters cheering for the local district president Sajid Siddiqui by saying "Sajid bhai zindabad" in Mumbai is being shared with false claims that Pakistan Zindabad slogans were raised. BOOM found another video which proves that the party supporters were raising 'Sajid bhai' zindabad slogans and also slogans praising Mumbai police and Abu Azmi, the Maharashtra president for SP.The video from May 14, shows Azmi and other SP leaders and Mumbai police personnel flag off a shramik special train at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station.
Pakistan Zindabad' Was Not Chanted by SP members In Mumbai as the video shot from another angle proves supporters were chanting 'Sajid bhai Zindabad' and not Pakistan Zindabad. in the presence of leader Abu Asim Azmi.A video of Samajwadi Party (SP) supporters cheering for the local district president Sajid Siddiqui by saying "Sajid bhai zindabad" in Mumbai is being shared with false claims that Pakistan Zindabad slogans were raised. BOOM found another video which proves that the party supporters were raising 'Sajid bhai' zindabad slogans and also slogans praising Mumbai police and Abu Azmi, the Maharashtra president for SP.The video from May 14, shows Azmi and other SP leaders and Mumbai police personnel flag off a shramik special train at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station.
News agency Indo-Asian News Service (IANS) falsely published a misleading news report on May 7 titled, "Imran Khan reads chart upside down, claims COVID curve flattening," . He claimed that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan stated that the coronavirus curve was flattening after he read the curve upside down. The story was also picked up by media portals such as News and Outlook. The report has now been taken down by Outlook.A Twitter account 'Not The Dependent' tweeted a screenshot of the IANS article and wrote, "Learn to differentiate between satire and actual news reports". 


Maharashtra Congress MLA Naseem Khan Did Not Say 'Pakistan Zindabad' as a Doctored clip used to falsely attribute 'Pakistan Zindabad' quote to Naseem Khan.Two days before elections is a crucial time for the contenders. Elections can be won or lost in these two days. At a time like this fake news, doctored videos are rampant and can be used to shape public opinion. BJP national spokesperson, Sambit Patra, has yet again tweeted a viral video claiming that Former Cabinet Minister in Govt of Maharashtra and Congress MLA from Chandivali constituency in Mumbai, Naseem Khan, hailed Pakistan. In the original clipping, it can be seen that the speech was given by Khan in March 2016 during a mushaira (a social gathering where typically poetry is read).


Article 35A Didn't Provide Citizenship To Pakistani Muslims In Kashmir. President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, on August 05, 2019, issued a Presidential Order revoking Jammu and Kashmir's special status. As a result of the Presidential Order, all the provisions of the Indian Constitution got applied to the State of J&K. This entailed that the State's separate Constitution was rendered not applicable, including the privileges sanctioned by the Article 370 and by extension Article 35A.It is being alleged that under Article 35A, only Pakistani Muslims were being granted Indian citizenship and not the Indian Muslims. The photo has been shared by various Twitter and Facebook groups. 




A CCTV footage wents viral and shows a speeding car crushing three people in Hyderabad-india, Pakistan but in reality the footage is from Hyderabad-India, and not Hyderabad-Pakistan.This video was viewed upwards of 141,000 times and shared 2,600 times as of writing time.The earliest instance we found — which carries the correct information in its caption but is posted by a Pakistani page.Mint reported that four other people were injured while the driver escaped; however, the suspect was caught, ABP Live reported (archive) a day later. Two of the deceased were identified as Anuradha and Mamta, the reports said.
Tarak Fateh's Tweet About Pakistani Woman Refusing Polio vaccine Is Actually A Movie Scene , as it did not happen in real.
Recently, a video showing a Pakistani woman shutting the door on polio volunteers has been going viral all over social media.In the video, she can be heard saying that she will never allow her children to take the polio drops.The video was first tweeted by Tarek Fatah, a Pakistani-Canadian journalist and author.The original tweet got retweeted more than three thousand times and was liked over eight thousand times.

The hospital, which was founded by PM Imran Khan, denied charging a fee, saying that eligible patients have been tested for free. A claim that a charitable hospital in Pakistan charged patients for novel coronavirus has been shared in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter. But the claim is misleading; the hospital, which was founded by Prime Minister Imran Khan, denied charging a fee, saying in a statement that eligible patients have been receiving free tests; the health minister of Punjab also denied the claim. The claim was shared more than 5,400 times since being published on Facebook here on March 16, 2020.
Video of mufti challenging government's decision for lockdown for stopping namaz in mosque order is from Pakistan and not India.India Today Anti Fake News Room (AFWA) has found that the video is not from India but Pakistan.A video of a man addressing a bunch of people is getting viral on social media. In his speech, the man says if the government is prohibiting entry of more than five people to offer namaz inside mosques, people are also ready to give their lives.
A video captures the temporary reopening of the border for Afghans to return home in early April. By - AFP | 14 Apr 2020.But this claim is false that Afghan Nationals Enter Pakistan Without Testing For novel coronavirus.
A video of a patient who tested positive for Coronavirus in UK is being falsely linked to a young Pakistani doctor Osama Riyaz who died after contracting Coronavirus while treating patients. A video falsely linking a Coronavirus-positive patient in the UK to deceased Pakistani doctor - Dr. Osama Riaz, has gone viral on social media. Doctor Osama Riaz became the first Pakistani doctor to lose his life to COVID-19 which he contracted while treating patients in Gilgit-Baltistan. BOOM found out that the person in the viral video is not Dr Osama Riyaz, who died on Sunday, but is Dr. Mubashir Ahmad. Ahmad, who had tested positive for Coronavirus, is expected to discharged from a UK hospital soon.
a social media post is going viral with the false claim that while in other countries, the coronavirus test is conducted for free or at nominal charges, in India, it is pretty expensive which is wrong.
In India, coronavirus tests are free in government labs like other countries however Private labs charge more, as well as in other countries
A photo of a Pakistani television news anchor with his wife and son at an International Women’s Day rally in Lahore has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts. In the photo the anchor's wife is displaying a placard that promotes “no shame” in nakedness however this claim is false and the photo has been doctored. The photo was published on Facebook on March 8, 2020. It has since been shared more than 400 times. it shows Pakistani journalist Mansor Ali Khan with his wife and child. The Urdu-language slogan on the piece of paper in Khan’s wife's hand translates to English as: “There is no shame in getting naked”.But the claim is false; Khan posted the original photo, which shows his wife holding a blank piece of paper, on his Facebook page .
The viral image of the letter in Urdu penned by the Head of Pakistan’s Islamic political party (Jamaat-e-Islami) for urging members to marry four women is fake. An image of a letter has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts which claim it shows a note written by the head of Jamaat-e-Islami, a leading Islamic political party in Pakistan. The letter, written in Urdu, urges the party's members to marry four women and to forgo contraceptives in order to increase party following however The claim is false and the party officials said the letter is fake and denied it was written by their leader.It shows a letter purportedly written by Siraj ul Haq, the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami (JI), to his followers on February 2, 2020. The post's Urdu caption translates to English as: "For the first time Jamaat-e-Islami has given some sensible suggestion which is certainly praiseworthy. The credit certainly goes to Siraj ul Haq and the Shoora (consultative body) of Jamaat-e-Islami that at last after 70 years they have given a practical formula.
this viral video is from Pakistan in which the Social distancing flouted in Hyderabad for Eid shopping. As the nation enters the fourth phase of lockdown, the state governments have eased some of the restrictions after reviewing the situation. This includes the opening of the market in selective areas also. Meanwhile, a video of an overcrowded market is getting viral on social media. It is being claimed that the video is from the Madian market in Hyderabad where people are shopping for Eid, violating lockdown norms.India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video which shows an overcrowded Madina market is not from Hyderabad-india, but Faisalabad in Pakistan where recently some relaxation in the lockdown was announced.
this viral video is from Pakistan in which the Social distancing flouted in Hyderabad for Eid shopping. As the nation enters the fourth phase of lockdown, the state governments have eased some of the restrictions after reviewing the situation. This includes the opening of the market in selective areas also. Meanwhile, a video of an overcrowded market is getting viral on social media. It is being claimed that the video is from the Madian market in Hyderabad where people are shopping for Eid, violating lockdown norms.India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video which shows an overcrowded Madina Market is not from Hyderabad-india, but Faisalabad in Pakistan where recently some relaxation in the lockdown was announced.
Photo Of Protesters Burning Tricolour Is From Pakistan Not in india. The image was clicked in June, 2015 in Multan, when protesters were demonstrating against an anti-Pak comment by Narendra Modi.The image shows protesters holding a burning tricolour and banners featuring a photo of Narendra Modi. The protesters have been falsely identified as anti-CAA sloganeers. The caption of the photo, when translated from Bengali reads, "What is the need to oust people who burn the national flag and hold rallies, from the country via the NRC? The anti-nationals should be kicked and exiled from the nation".
Kerala students wrongly reported to have raised Pakistani flag in stories by Times.This fake "breaking news” published by several media outlets on August 31 falsely claimed that the Kerala police had booked 30 students of Kozhikode’s Silver Arts College for waving a Pakistani flag during the campaign for college elections.The alleged incident was also picked by Pakistani media. Many across the border shared Times Now’s broadcast, including Major General Asif Ghafoor, the spokesperson of the Pakistan Armed Forces.This was not the first time that students belonging to the organisation had waved imperfect flags. Images of the flag raised in Silver Arts College, Perambra, in 2016 also show an imperfect colour ratio.
A CCTV footage of a Bus Accident from Pakistan is being shared with false claims that it captures the last moments of passengers onboard the PIA flight PK 8303 that crashed on May 22, 2020. A PIA flight with 99 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport on May 22, 2020, in Karachi. The flight that took off from Lahore, crashed minutes before landing, with 97 reported deaths.In the viral clip, passengers are seated suddenly start panicking as the bus lurches and is being shared on Facebook with the caption, "Exclusive video. The video of pakistan international airline passenger plane that crushed with ninety passengers"


A disturbing video from Pakistan showing a muslim woman ruthlessly thrashed and being beaten by lawyers, is being shared on Indian social media with a fake claim that the woman is a Hindu and was attacked for her religion. The clip, over just a minute long, shows the woman shoved and kicked as she tries to retaliate using a sandal. The caption with the video states: "This is how women are being treated in Pakistan.Although the video was posted on December 1st, it is going viral in the backdrop of the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) passed in both houses of parliament this week. The bill allows citizenship to six non-Muslim religious groups from Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh in order to escape religious persecution. 

Priyanka Gandhi hasn’t made those statements about Pakistan Army and destroying them as False quotes are being attributed to her.Information from no credible source was found to authenticate the claim. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.Those statements attributed to her are in circulation on social media since the past 2-3 days. When one visits Priyanka Gandhi’s official Twitter account to check if she has said anything about the Pakistan army in the past 3 weeks, it was found that she hasn't tweeted anything about it.
A Viral video of a Bus Accident from Pakistan is being shared with false claims that it captures the last moments of passengers onboard the PIA flight PK 8303 that crashed on May 22, 2020. A PIA flight with 99 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport on May 22, 2020, in Karachi. The flight that took off from Lahore, crashed minutes before landing, with 97 reported deaths.In the viral clip, passengers are seated suddenly start panicking as the bus lurches and is being shared on Facebook with the caption, "Exclusive video. The video of pakistan international airline passenger plane that crushed with ninety passengers"


Social media posts claiming Pakistani Cricketer yasir Shah died in the Pakistan Airlines flight which crashed in Karachi, are false. BOOM reached out to Pakistan Cricket Board who said that the posts are false and that Shah was never on the plane that crashed. A Pakistan Airlines flight - PK 833 crashed in Model Colony near Jinnah international airport, Karachi. The flight with 85 passengers and six crew members was headed to Karachi from Lahore and is said to have crashed minutes before landing. According to media reports, 92 people have died due to the crash while two passengers have said to have survived the crash.
A short clip of people raising slogans on a railway station platform as Maharashtra Samajwadi Party leader walks past is going viral with the claim that among the slogans raised, one is ‘Pakistan Zindabad’.
‘Pakistan Zindabad’ Slogans Not Raised in Mumbai in front of SP leader Abu as Claim is Fake and the message being shared with the video appears to be deliberately misleading.But this claim is completely false and no ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans were raised in the state. The message being shared with the video is deliberately misleading.
A photo of activist Shehla Rashid wearing a saree with the Pakistan national flag printed on it is morphed . The edited and doctored photo is viral with false claims that shehla Rashid wears saris with Pakistan's flag on it, when travelling outside India. The set of two images, one where Rashid can be seen covering her head with a dupatta and the other, a photoshopped image of Rashid flaunting a green and white sari with a crescent moon and star, is viral on social media.Rashid, who has been a regular subject of misinformation, joined the JnK Peoples Movement founded by Shah Faesal, ahead of the general elections this year. She quit active politics last month.The posts are doing the rounds in the wake of the recent protests held by students of Jawaharlal Nehru University against the proposed fee hike. 




A viral video showing religious flags used by the Muslim community in India is being shared with a false claim that Pakistan flags were spotted in Jalandhar, Punjab. The Hoisted flags in Jalandhar , punjab were religious flags and not the Pakistan national flag. Punjab police who explained that local police examined the flag after the same video was reported to them on Monday and found that they were "not flags of Pakistan but the religious flag for Muslims".The video with the false claim was tweeted by the Twitter handle 'No Conversion' with the caption, "Pakistani flags... in Jalandhar Punjab, this area Vijay Colony is infested with Christian Missionaries".

Navjot Singh Sidhu wearing a green turban with a crescent and star on it is fake. The viral photo is photoshopped and the claim made on social media is false. BOOM found that the photo was originally taken by Press Trust of India, which was later morphed and uploaded on social media. Navjot Singh Sidhu had tweeted a video-clip from his Indore rally on May 11 this year where he had worn the same turban. The original photo does not have any crescent and star imprinted on the turban. Punjab’s chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had also condemned the sharing of the unverified photo. BOOM had previously written an article debunking the fake image in July this year.
Photo of female fighter IAF pilot shared claiming her involvement in the air strike in Pakistan is false. IAF pilot Avani Chaturvedi is one of the first female fighter pilots to be inducted into the IAF . Fcat checker had previously debunked the same claim in February 2019, when it was viral after Balakot strikes. Five IAF pilots - Wing Commander Amit Ranjan, Squadron Leaders Rahul Basoya, Pankaj Bhujade, BKN Reddy and Shashank Singh were awarded the Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry) for bombing Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist camp in Pakistan’s Balakot. IAF Squadron Leader Minty Agarwal was also awarded the Yudh Sewa Medal for her role as a fighter controller reported India Today on August 24, 2019. 



Video Of India, Pak Soldiers Dancing Falsely Shared As Kartarpur Corridor Opening Ceremony as the video is from August 2018 and shows troops celebrating following an anti-terror drill.A 2018 video of army personnel from India and Pakistan dancing together in Russia is viral with a false claim that it shows celebrations at the inauguration of the Kartarpur corridor. The Kartarpur corridor is an important link connecting two holy shrines of Sikhs - the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab with Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, just about four km from the international border.


Maharashtra Congress MLA Naseem Khan Did Not Say 'Pakistan Zindabad' as he was was referring to a statement made by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar.A 2016 video of a Congress leader Naseem Khan from Mumbai referring to Sri Sri Ravishankar's statement on India-Pakistan unity has been edited to falsely claim that Khan shouted 'Pakistan Zindabad' at a cultural event.Mushaira News - in the left hand corner of the viral video and found the original video on YouTube uploaded by a channel of the same name.





A fake video of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has been viewed tens of thousands of times in multiple Facebook posts alongside a false claim that it shows him angrily abusing journalists in response to India revoking Jammu and Kashmir's special status in August 2019. The claim is false; the video actually shows an irritated Khan urging his supporters to be quiet during a press conference in 2015.video of Pakistan’s Imran Khan has nothing to do with India’s recent policy in Kashmir.The one-minute two-second clip was published here in a Facebook post on August 19, 2019. It has been viewed more than 40,000 times.The Hindi language text above the footage translates to English as: “Pakistan PM Imran Khan went crazy over Article 370, started abusing journalists.”
Alt News did not find any media reports corroborating the ‘news’ of a pilot urinating in a fighter plane in Pakistan also Neither could we locate any such news story on Dawn’s website.A similar screenshot of an alleged Dawn story regarding the disappearance of an F-16 jet had gone viral earlier. The daily itself published a fact-check report on the claim. We discovered that the same screenshot has been used this time as well, just with an edited headline. The two also share a common date, June 10, 2020.To sum it up, a variety of fake claims was made on social media with an edited screenshot from the website of the Pakistani newspaper Dawn. This alleged story about a pilot urinating in a fighter plane is completely false.


Alt News did not find any media reports corroborating the ‘news’ of a pilot urinating in a fighter plane in Pakistan also Neither could we locate any such news story on Dawn’s website.A similar screenshot of an alleged Dawn story regarding the disappearance of an F-16 jet had gone viral earlier. The daily itself published a fact-check report on the claim. We discovered that the same screenshot has been used this time as well, just with an edited headline. The two also share a common date, June 10, 2020.To sum it up, a variety of fake claims was made on social media with an edited screenshot from the website of the Pakistani newspaper Dawn. This alleged story about a pilot urinating in a fighter plane is completely false. 

Pakistani Accounts Spread Fake News Of Sikh Soldiers Quitting and resign Indian Army to protest against farm laws.Several Pakistani Twitter handles falsely claimed that soldiers of the 21 Sikh Regiment of the Indian Army resigned to express solidarity with protesting farmers in Delhi. The tweets have used the hashtag of 'Breaking News' and 'Big News' to mislead readers and state that as many as 300 Sikh soldiers of the Indian Army resigned in support of the farmers' protest against the contentious farm bills.Colonel Aman Anand, spokesperson of the Indian Army, who rubbished the tweets and termed them 'baseless.' 


A misleading video has been viewed more than a million times in multiple posts on Facebook which falsely claims Pakistani army officers winning a military competition against US army officers . this footage actually shows an event in the 60th World Military Pentathlon Championship held in Brazil in 2013, which neither Pakistan nor the US participated in.A reverse image search of a logo visible in the video at its 39-second mark found the clip actually shows an event in the 60th World Military Pentathlon Championship hosted by the International Military Sports Council (CISM) in Brazil in 2013. 




Indian media and politicians amplify false claim that Pakistani lawmakers chanted in favour of Narendra Modi.A television news segment in India reporting that slogans favoring Prime Minister Narendra Modi were chanted by lawmakers in Pakistan has been shared extensively on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. The claim was widely amplified by prominent Indian politicians and other media outlets. However, the claim is false; the lawmakers were in fact chanting calls for a vote during a debate in Pakistan’s national assembly. A one-minute and 45-seconds news clip was published on Facebook here on October 29, 2020. The post’s caption says: “Modi Modi slogans in Pakistan’s parliament.”
Fake tweet on France deporting Pakistanis go viral after Imran slams Macron.Many media reports have surfaced which say that French authorities cancelled visas of 183 Pakistani citizens and deported 118 from the country.All these media reports have used a tweet posted by the username "Consulate General Of Pakistan France", with the handle "@PakConsulateFr". India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that "@PakConsulateFr" is an imposter account of the Pakistani embassy in France.French President Emmanuel Macron has been an outspoken critic of Islamic fundamentalism since the beheading of a teacher in Paris. Countries such as Pakistan and Turkey, in turn, have criticised Macron for his remarks.
Fake tweet on France deporting 183 pakistani nationals go viral after Imran slams Macron. Many fake media reports went viral which say that French authorities cancelled visas of 183 Pakistani citizens and deported 118 from the country.All these media reports have used a tweet posted by the username "Consulate General Of Pakistan France", with the handle "@PakConsulateFr". India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that "@PakConsulateFr" is an imposter account of the Pakistani embassy in France.French President Emmanuel Macron has been an outspoken critic of Islamic fundamentalism since the beheading of a teacher in Paris. Countries such as Pakistan and Turkey, in turn, have criticised Macron for his remarks. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan even accused the French President of encouraging "Islamophobia".
Doctored video purports to show Pakistani opposition leader Bilawal Bhutto Zardari does not know how basic foodstuff is weighed also incorrectly guessing price of groceries. A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter which claim it shows a Pakistani opposition leader incorrectly giving the price of certain groceries in Pakistan. The posts claim the video is evidence that the politician is unfit to become the leader of Pakistan. The claim is false; the video has been doctored and there is no record of the politician making such a statement.The 19-second video was published in this Facebook post on October 18, 2020. It has been viewed 87,000 times and shared 5,700 times.
Two videos have recently gone viral on social media. In the first, a man is seen physically abusing a girl. A user named Uma Shankar Rajput shared the clip, writing, “Shut down these madrasas which have become the dens of obscenity. Old videos of students sexual abuse in Pakistan shared to target madrasas in India. Those who always offer commentary about saints are requested to speak up about this as well.” The tweet was liked 2,400 times at the time of writing. While the accompanying claim does not explicitly state where the incident took place, several believe it to be from India. Rajput, in fact, talked about the Muslim community in India after his tweet carrying the video.
This photo of a Pakistani Islamic leader politician has been doctored to include a bottle of whisky and is fake . A photo of a Pakistani religious political party chief has been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim it shows him on board a plane with a bottle of whisky on his table. The claim is false; as the photo has been digitally manipulated to include the whisky bottle.The photo was published in this Facebook post on September 25, 2020. It has been shared more than 540 times.
Photos Of Rakhi Sawant With Pakistan Flag Viral With Misleading Claims, however Rakhi Sawant confirmed that the photograph was taken during the shooting of the film Mudda 370 J&K and are not real. Netizens have accused Sawant of being an anti-national because of posing with a Pakistan national flag. Several have also mistook the location in the image as Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). BOOM reached out to the actor who clarified that the photographs were taken as part of the shooting of the film Mudda 370 J&K.


A misleading post with an image of a young girl is being widely shared on social media platforms with the false claim that the 10-year-old young Indian girl Anitha is getting married to her paternal uncle Shivnath Chaturvedi who is 40 years old which is totally wrong and has nothing to do with india. According to an article in a Pakistan news agency, police had foiled an attempt of child marriage in Ahmadpur, Pakistan. And the man seen in the image is identified as Tariq. Hence the incident has nothing to do with India. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.Reverse image search of the photo led us to a Pakistani news article dated 20 August 2020, in which the same image is reported. According to the news report, the image is from Ram Kali area in Punjab Province, Pakistan where a young girl was forced to marry a middle-aged man. Eventually, the marriage attempt was foiled by the police. Another news article reporting of this incident can be read here.
A fake picture of Aamir Khan with two bearded men is doing rounds on social media with the misleading claim that he met Pakistani terrorists Tariq Jameel and Junaid Shamshed during his Hajj visit.Actor Aamir Khan found a special spot on the social media trending list after photos of his recent meeting with the first lady of Turkey Emine Erdogan didn't go down well with several Indians. Fans on Twitter weren't too happy because of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recent remarks on Kashmir during his visit to Islamabad.
A false viral video which shows a man taking his burqa off in front of policemen is being circulated on social media with the misleading claim that he is an RSS man. According to the claim, he was caught waving the Pakistani flag in a burqa to defame Muslims. however in an orignal news , police arrested the burqa-clad man along with others for smuggling illegal liquor to Andhra Pradesh from Telangana. The incident took place at Panchalingala check-post in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh.Therefore, the burqa-clad man is not an RSS worker held for waving a Pakistani flag, he was arrested for smuggling liquor in AP.
Social media users share 2018 old image as Indian chopper M17 recently crashed in Laddak however it is not recent. Alt News performed a reverse image search on Google. The results led us to multiple media reports from 2018. The viral image was published by The Times of India (TOI), International Business Times and India TV. As per TOI report, a MI-17 helicopter reportedly caught fire after it hit an iron girder while it was attempting to land on a helipad near the Kedarnath temple on April 3, 2018. The report added that one person was killed and three were injured in this accident.
2018 Video From Jammu Falsely Shared As Hindu Women Beaten Up and assaulted In pakistan however the clip is two years old and is from Jammu's Rajouri area and not Pakistan's Punjab region. The claim that the video shows Hindu women getting beaten up is also false.A 2018 video from Jammu's Rajouri district showing a man beat two women, with a stick, has been revived online with a false claim that it shows the condition of Hindu women in Pakistan's Punjab region. The disturbing 1.40 second clip shows a man hurling abuses and beating the women with a stick, in what appears to be an open ground.


A video of Pakistani YouTuber ‘Doctor Turki’ has resurfaced on social media, who claims to have exposed a leaked audio recording of Modi on Pulwama the claim to be baseless.The Narendra Modi government and Indian media have constantly been targeted by Pakistani trolls, smarting after the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir. Social media users from the neighbouring country are now digging up old and baseless videos to claim that Modi was the mastermind of the Pulwama attack on February 14 this year that killed 40 CRPF jawans.
An old and fake Video Of Muslims shared as recent Chanting 'Pakistan Murdabad' Has Nothing To Do With Article 37 and they did not say that this new Jammu and Kashmir.The video of a group of Muslims burning Pakistan's national flag and chanting anti-Pakistan slogans has gone viral with a misleading claim on social media. The claim with the video purports to show that Kashmiris have taken an anti-Pakistan stance in the wake of the recent political developments in the valley.Twitter with keywords 'anti-Pakistan's slogans and #PakistanZindabad' and found the same video shared by one Nisar Mehdi in September 29, 2016. 


Image of Indian army handing over a 7 year old Pakistani child’s dead body shared with a false claim that Pakistani army showing white flag to retrieve dead bodies of terrorists.A simple reverse-image search of the picture on Google was enough to establish that it is not related to the recent skirmish on the LoC. The photograph is of July 2019, and pertains to the handing over of the body of a seven year old Pakistani boy who had fallen off a cliff into the river in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK). According to a report by NDTV published on July 12, 2019.Moreover, the same information was tweeted on July 11, 2019, by the official Twitter account of the Indian army. Journalist Aditya Raj Kaul had also tweeted about it, along with the picture now being shared with the false narrative.In conclusion, it may be stated that the photograph in question is of July 2019 and is unrelated to the recent combat at the Line of Control in J&K.
Bollywood actor Aamir Khan met Pakistani terrorists Tariq Jameel and Junaid Shamshed.
The video went viral of an Algerian football fans in a Crowded stadium and this is not a rally in Washington , US for the Pakistani prime minister speech.Multiple Facebook posts and tweets have shared a video of an enthusiastic crowd cheering and waving flares at a stadium, alongside claims that it depicts a rally in Washington addressed by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, The claims are false. The footage shows Algerian football fans. 28-second video, posted to Facebook on July 21, 2019 and shared more than 27,000 times, shows a packed stadium full of excited people.
Man Urinating During Cricket Match Is Indian, Not Pakistani The graphic video shows a man urinating in the stands during a cricket match. BOOM was able to identify that man wearing Indian tricolour is Narendra Bhojani, from Gujarat living in the United Kingdom.A graphic video of a man urinating at a cricket ground dressed in the Indian tricolour is being shared with a false claim that the man is a Pakistan national. The undated video shows the man removing his shorts and urinate on the cricket grounds with someone in the background recording the incident and cheering him on. After urinating, the man gets up and cheers loudly. The man is wearing a vest and a turban with the Indian tricolour on it. 




This photo of a Pakistani Islamic leader politician has been doctored to include a bottle of whisky and is fake . A photo of a Pakistani religious political party chief has been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim it shows him on board a plane with a bottle of whisky on his table. The claim is false; as the photo has been digitally manipulated to include the whisky bottle.The photo was published in this Facebook post on September 25, 2020. It has been shared more than 540 times.
Photo Of Flooded Playground In Mumbai Shared As Karachi. The photo in fact shows a playground in the Indian city of Mumbai..A photo has been shared thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim it shows flooding in the southern Pakistani city of Karachi however The claim is false . the photo in fact shows a playground in the Indian city of Mumbai.The photo was published on Twitter by former Pakistani cricketer Ramiz Raja on July 29, 2020. It has been retweeted more than 7,000 times. 


Video Of Boy Rescued From Open drain in Pakistan Viral As Dongri , Mumbai. the clip is from Banaras Chowk, ​​Karachi, Pakistan.A video of a young boy being rescued from an open drain filled with rainwater in Karachi, Pakistan is being falsely shared as an incident in Dongri, Mumbai. The clip is being shared a day after Mumbai recorded heavy rainfall, with the India Meteorological Department stating that it was the highest downpour for a single day in August since 1974. The rains left most parts of the city flooded and the transport systems running for essential workers, suspended. Mumbai is also currently grappling with rising number of COVID-19 cases and is under lockdown till August 31, 2020.
Social media posts claiming Pakistani Cricketer yasir Shah died in the Pakistan Airlines flight which crashed in Karachi, are false. BOOM reached out to Pakistan Cricket Board who said that the posts are false and that Shah was never on the plane that crashed. A Pakistan Airlines flight - PK 833 crashed in Model Colony near Jinnah international airport, Karachi. The flight with 85 passengers and six crew members was headed to Karachi from Lahore and is said to have crashed minutes before landing. According to media reports, 92 people have died due to the crash while two passengers have said to have survived the crash.
A video showing people in hospital beds on a street has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook alongside a claim it shows coronavirus patients who were moved outside a hospital in Pakistan because of an overflow of patients. The claim is false; the video in fact shows patients who were evacuated from a hospital in the Pakistani city of Lahore after a fire broke out. The video shows patients who were evacuated from a hospital in Pakistan after a fire broke out not because of overflow in hospitals due to COVID-19. The one-minute six-second video was published on Facebook here on June 15, 2020. It has been viewed more than 1,800 times.
Google Did Not Remove LoC From India's Map. The India Meteorological Department's Regional Meteorological Centre has started including cities under Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in its forecasts, a departure from its earlier format, officials said on May 7. Following this a message which falsely claims that Google Maps has removed the Line of Control between India and Pakistan, and the Line of Actual Control between India and China started doing the rounds on social media. According to the viral claims, a previous version of the map did show the disputed borders in grey, which has now been removed. The message further states that such a move by Google hints at the United States looking to get involved with India in fighting Pakistan and China.The map accompanying the posts show Jammu and Kashmir as a whole, without a line separating PoK, suggesting that PoK is a part of India.


The video went viral member of Tablighi Jamaat running naked and causing destruction at an isolation ward is fake because the video is from Pakistan’s Karachi and the incident took place at a mosque in “Gulshan e Hadeed”. We looked up several mosques on Google maps located in this area and found that the said incident took place at Jamia Masjid Khalid Bin Waleed. In the comparison posted below, we have matched a frame from the video with an image of the mosque available on Google.the man was identified as Shafiq Abro who was later arrested by the police. It also said that the man is the son of a police commando and he is mentally-challenged.
Pakistani bank branch said no staff had tested positive for COVID-19 and its branches remained open.he claim is false; the bank said in a statement that “no employee at any” branch had tested positive for COVID-19, and that all branches remained “open and fully operative.” The screenshot was published on Facebook here on March 19, 2020. The post’s caption reads: “Bank of Punjab Chandni chowk Branch Rawalpindi. One of the staff member Corona Test Positive.”A similar misleading claim about the Bank of Punjab (BOP) branch closing were also shared on Facebook and on Twitter . The claim was shared on WhatsApp as well.
An image of a letter has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts which claim it shows a note written by the head of Jamaat-e-Islami, a leading Islamic political party in Pakistan. The letter, written in Urdu, urges the party’s members to marry four women and to forgo contraceptives in order to increase party following ,The claim is false. party officials said the letter is fake and denied it was written by their leader. It shows a letter purportedly written by Siraj ul Haq, the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami (JI), to his followers on February 2, 2020.The post’s Urdu caption translates to English as: “For the first time Jamaat-e-Islami has given some sensible suggestion which is certainly praiseworthy. The credit certainly goes to Siraj ul Haq and the Shoora (consultative body) of Jamaat-e-Islami that at last after 70 years they have given a practical formula!!!! Signed Baba Kodda.” 


Video of Failed Russian Missile Launch Passed Off As Pakistan 13th Test of Ghaznavi Missile Failed which is wrong.the viral video is from 2013 when a Russian Proton-M rocket had crashed seconds after take off.Dramatic footage of a rocket crashing seconds after take off is being shared with the false claim that it is from the recent launch of Pakistan's nuclear capable ballistic missile 'Ghaznavi'. The 45-seconds clip shows a rocket take off but soon lose its trajectory, somersault and explode while still in flight.
Pakistan's welfare system chief said this Pakstani lawmaker Nafisa Shah was never a welfare beneficiary. Multiple Facebook and Twitter posts shared thousands of times claim a Pakistani lawmaker received government welfare payments for the last seven years however t he claim is false. the welfare system chief denied that the lawmaker was ever a beneficiary of the scheme; official records show the lawmaker is not the Information Minister for a provincial government in Pakistan; the lawmaker herself has also refuted the false claim.The false claim was published in this Facebook post on January 17, 2020. It has been shared more than 6,700 times.
Tarak Fateh's Tweet About Pakistani Woman Refusing Polio vaccine Is Actually A Movie Scene , as it did not happen in real. 
Recently, a video showing a Pakistani woman shutting the door on polio volunteers has been going viral all over social media.In the video, she can be heard saying that she will never allow her children to take the polio drops.The video was first tweeted by Tarek Fatah, a Pakistani-Canadian journalist and author.The original tweet got retweeted more than three thousand times and was liked over eight thousand times.
An old video of Pakistan Army abusing Taliban suspects is falsely shared as Indian Army thrashing Muslims in kashmir. It is a 2009 video that shows Pakistan Army abusing Taliban suspects in their country. Hence, the claim is FALSE. When the video in the post was run through ‘InVid’ plugin, several keyframes were obtained. When these keyframes are subjected to reverse image search, these were found in a video with the title ‘Pakistan army treatment with Talibans’ and it was uploaded on YouTube in 2012.With that information, when searched with keywords ‘Pakistan army abuse Pashtuns Taliban’, an article of ‘BBC News’ with the screenshot of that video was found. The article was published on 01 October, 2009. 


A text image shared in multiple Facebook and Twitter posts claim that Iran has suspended oil supplies to Pakistan as a result of billions of dollars worth of outstanding payments as the claim is false. Pakistan does not import oil from Iran, according to the country’s state oil company. The post, which has been shared more than seven hundred times, was published here on Facebook on August 18, 2019.An article published here by Iran’s Mehr news agency on May 2, 2019, reports that “Iran does not export its oil and gas to Pakistan.”
Cropped Video Of Imran Khan Shared To Claim He Praised Modi Government .Khan was criticising the Indian government and calling the current regime totalitarian, anti-Muslim, anti-Islam and anti-Pakistan. A cropped video of Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan speaking about the Narendra Modi-led government is being widely shared on Indian social media with a false claim that Khan admitted that for the first time in 73 years India has a 'strong and iron-willed' government. BOOM traced the original video and found that Khan's remarks have been taken out of context. He in fact called the Indian government 'totalitarian, racist, anti-Muslim, anti-Islam and anti-Pakistan', and not 'strong and iron-willed' as claimed by right wing netizens in India. 


A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times in multiple Facebook and Twitter posts alongside a claim it shows pro-Pakistan chants at a protest in support of Indian farmers in the British capital of London however the claim is false . this video actually shows a demonstration against Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New York when he visited the city in 2019. 
The 37-second video was shared here in a Facebook post on December 11, 2020. It has been viewed more than 26,000 times.
Imran Khan's Ex-Wife Jemima Goldsmith Has Not Given Birth To A Girl. Clickbait headlines on several Pakistani news articles published a fake news on November 2020 claim that British film producer Jemima Goldsmith, ex-wife of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, has given birth to a baby girl which is totally wrong. The articles were shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts. The claim is false; the misleading posts link to an Instagram post by Goldsmith in which she announced the birth of her niece in April 2020. The claim was published here on Facebook on November 6, 2020. It has been shared almost 500 times.The post features a photo of Goldsmith, a British film and television producer, with her brother Ben Goldsmith.



Imran Khan's Ex-Wife Jemima Goldsmith Has Not Given Birth To A Girl. Clickbait headlines on several Pakistani news articles published a fake news on November 2020 claim that British film producer Jemima Goldsmith, ex-wife of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, has given birth to a baby girl which is totally wrong. The articles were shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts. The claim is false; the misleading posts link to an Instagram post by Goldsmith in which she announced the birth of her niece in April 2020. The claim was published here on Facebook on November 6, 2020. It has been shared almost 500 times.The post features a photo of Goldsmith, a British film and television producer, with her brother Ben Goldsmith. 


A clip from a news broadcast has been shared in multiple Facebook and Twitter posts that claim it shows Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan blaming Muslims for recent acts of terrorism in France But the claim is misleading . the posts share a short, edited extract of Khan’s speech in which key phrases had been cut, changing the meaning of his speech. The video was posted here on November 8, 2020 by Pakistani channel 24 News, which has more than three million Facebook followers. The misleading post’s Urdu-language caption translates to English as: “Prime Minister blames France terrorism on Muslims”. The video in the misleading clip shows scenes from a joint press conference with the President of Bosnia which took place on 4th November 2020.
A fake video went viral and shows Uprooting plants In Pakistan Viral With Islamophobic Claim that it was un-islamic. the video shows angry locals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa uprooting saplings to protest against the government as the saplings were planted over land where the ownership is in dispute. A video from Pakistan showing a frenzied group uprooting plant saplings and waving black flags, is being shared on social media with captions falsely claiming that the men were doing so as planting trees is against Islam.he incident took place on August 9, 2020 at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan where angry locals uprooted saplings as a mark of protests as the saplings were reportedly planted over land where the ownership is in dispute.
Morphed AajTak Claims went viral that Imran Khan's Wife has tested positive for coronavirus as the he image is false and photoshopped to make a false claim. A viral graphic claiming AAJ Tak reported that Bushra Bibi, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's wife has tested positive for the novel coronavirus is false, and the graphic photoshopped. The photoshopped screenshot with the logo of the Hindi news channel falsely claims that the Bibi, tested positive after she came in contact with his driver. The fake graphic falsely claims that the driver has tested positive for COVID-19 and Khan's househelp is showing symptoms of coronavirus. The graphic further claims that Khan has tested negative.


Morphed AajTak Claims went viral that Imran Khan's Wife has tested positive for coronavirus as the he image is false and photoshopped to make a false claim. A viral graphic claiming AAJ Tak reported that Bushra Bibi, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's wife has tested positive for the novel coronavirus is false, and the graphic photoshopped. The photoshopped screenshot with the logo of the Hindi news channel falsely claims that the Bibi, tested positive after she came in contact with his driver. The fake graphic falsely claims that the driver has tested positive for COVID-19 and Khan's househelp is showing symptoms of coronavirus. The graphic further claims that Khan has tested negative. 

Pakistan denies misleading claim that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s salary has been increased.A video of a Pakistani opposition politician claiming Prime Minister Imran Khan’s salary has increased threefold in 2020 has been viewed thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook, The claim is misleading .The Prime Minister’s Office issued a statement denying Khan's salary had been increased; official legislation shows the Prime Minister's salary was last increased in 2012. The video was published here on Facebook on January 30, 2020, and it has been viewed 9,300 times and shared 849 times.
A few images of Kejriwal with Imran Khan have gone viral with fake and false claim that the Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal met Imran Khan just before the election.Arvind Kejriwal's landslide victory in Delhi might have stunned his detractors, but misinformation on social media regarding the assembly election continues unabated. A few images of Kejriwal with Imran Khan have gone viral with the claim that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief met the Pakistan Prime Minister just before the election. Facebook user "Indra Pal Singh" posted a set of four images on February 7, 2020, a day before the election, which is still being shared by many on Facebook. The user claimed in Hindi that at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi is busy teaching Pakistan a lesson, Kejriwul is joining hands with India's enemies to win the election in Delhi.
A few images of Kejriwal with Imran Khan have gone viral with fake and false claim that the Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal met Imran Khan just before the Delhi elections 2020.Arvind Kejriwal's landslide victory in Delhi might have stunned his detractors, but misinformation on social media regarding the assembly election continues unabated. A few images of Kejriwal with Imran Khan have gone viral with the claim that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief met the Pakistan Prime Minister just before the election. Facebook user "Indra Pal Singh" posted a set of four images on February 7, 2020, a day before the election, which is still being shared by many on Facebook. The user claimed in Hindi that at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi is busy teaching Pakistan a lesson, Kejriwul is joining hands with India's enemies to win the election in Delhi.
This photo of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan at a Sikh ceremony wearing sikh turban has been doctored. A photo of Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan has been shared thousands of times in multiple Facebook posts which claim it shows him wearing a yellow Sikh turban at a religious ceremony. The claim is false; the photo of Khan has been doctored to include the turban. 
The doctored photo was published on Facebook here on November 9, 2019. It has since been shared more than 45,000 times. The photo shows Imran Khan sitting next to Navjot Singh Sidhu, an Indian politician who, like Khan, is a former professional cricketer. Both men are shown wearing yellow Sikh turbans.
The artist seen in the video Pakistani artist mimicking is not from Pakistan, as claimed. He is Indian. In the comments section of the above tweet, the person who posted the tweet himself mentions that the artist in not Pakistani, but Indian, and that his name is Saurabh Singhal. On the basis of this information, Alt News searched YouTube and found several videos featuring this artist. One such video, where Singhal is again seen mimicking the Pakistan PM, is posted below.Alt News also found the LinkedIn profile of Saurabh Singhal, wherein he describes himself as an actor, mimic and stand-up comedian, among others.
The viral video shows that Pakistan PM Imran Khan was shot at in Pakistan which is not true as fact checkers found in video of Imran Khan only got injured and is a five years old . “Cricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan today was grievously injured on his head when he fell off a forklift that was hoisting him on to a stage for an election campaign meeting here in Pakistan. Imran, 60, and several of his bodyguards apparently lost their balance and fell several feet to the ground.”, stated a report published by The Indian Express on May 7, 2013. Thus, the visuals now shared on social media are old and unrelated to a gun attack as claimed. Last year, it was fact-checked by ABP News.
An image of a poster has gone viral online in which Pakistan's PTI party is using Amitabh Bachchan and Madhuri Dixit photos ,however the party denied that poster don't belong them. The poster suggests that Amitabh Bachchan and Madhuri Dixit will campaign for Imran Khan in upcoming elections.India Today next spoke to Anila Khwaja, a spokesman for the PTI. Khwaja denied that the poster belonged to her party.Instead, she claimed such material was put up to malign party reputation by falsely suggesting that the PTI has hired Bollywood stars for its campaign because of desperation.
A photo claim that a former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif dining in London after being granted bail on medical grounds following corruption charges in Lahore however the claim is false. the photo actually shows Sharif at a 2017 reception dinner with politicians in the eastern Pakistani city of Gujranwala.A photo has been shared thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter in January 2020. It has been shared more than 22,000 times.The post’s Urdu-language caption translates to English as: "A painful scene from an ICU of a British hospital".
A photo has been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook which falsely claim it shows former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif meeting the Israeli ambassador to “sell out” Pakistan's nuclear secrets which is false and the the photo has been doctored. It replaces the German flag with the Israeli flag; the original photo shows Sharif meeting former German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle in Islamabad in 2013. The photo was published on Facebook here on September 22, 2020. The post has been shared more than 400 times. A reverse image search on Google found the image was doctored from this photo by Getty Images. The original shows Sharif meeting the visiting former German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle in Islamabad in June 2013.
An image of a purported US newspaper article criticising the judiciary in Pakistan for wrongly claiming in misleading article relates to a Pakistani court’s decision to grant travel permission to Nawaz Sharif. the country's ailing former Prime Minister, was imprisoned for corruption. The claim is false as the image does not show a genuine newspaper.The image was published here in a Facebook post on November 17, 2019. It has been shared 897 times.has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts. The purported newspaper front page bears the headline “Are Pakistani courts bitches of the riches?” and features a photo of Nawaz Sharif. The posts has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts.
Catch News published an article on August 8, 2019. which stated that the cricketer had been greeted with chants of 'boom boom Afridi' by locals in Baramulla, Kashmir . The 19 seconds clips of Pakistani News channel which has a video of people chanting the name of Pakistan cricketer Shahid Afridi by saying 'Boom Boom Afridi' when greeting dhoni is not recent and is from 2017 year.Among Indian news outlets the Hindustan Times reported on November 29, 2017 that when Dhoni was on a visit to Jammu and Kashmir as a chief guest of an army-sponsored cricket tournament in the valley, he was jeered with the chant.
Old images from Kolkata and Pakistan falsely shared as curfew violation in West Bengal. A set of images is going viral on social media with the claim that it depicts the violation of coronavirus lockdown in West Bengal’s Kolkata.Facebook user Ram Tapas Chandra Roy posted a set of images with the same claim. It has garnered close to 1,300 shares.This image is not from India let alone Kolkata, West Bengal. It’s available on the image-sharing platform Flickr. According to the website, it’s a 2007 image from Pakistan’s Rawalpindi and it depicts the Bara Market located in the city.A reverse search of this image revealed that while the image is from Kolkata, it was clicked last year. We found this image was published along with a July 2019 Times of India report.
Social media is going gaga over a video of school kids marking their attendance through an identity card scanner. It is being claimed that the video is from a school in Delhi, where the Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has installed this high-tech machine for attendance.India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that the viral video about Online attendance system installed by Arvind Kejriwal government. is not from Delhi but Rawalpindi in Pakistan.
An old image of a Sikh youth holding a placard demanding the release of Hurriyat pro-kashmir leaders is shared on social media falsely claiming to be from farmers' protest. The Logical Indian Fact Check team debunks the claim.An image of a Sikh man holding a placard with the text "Release all mainstream and Pro-Freedom Kashmiri Leadership, Dal Khalsa, SAD (Amritsar)", is doing rounds on social media. The image is being shared in context with the ongoing farmers' protest. It has gone viral with the caption, "In the last three decades, terrorists have killed many kids, and when these leaders of Hurriyat supported the terrorists, then my heart used to wail. Now when Narendra Modi Ji has locked them in jail then youth in farmers' protest are demanding their release, the soul of his ancestors must be crying seeing this.


An old image of a Sikh youth Man holding a placard demanding the Release of Hurriyat pro-kashmir leaders is shared on social media falsely claiming to be from farmers' protest. The Logical Indian Fact Check team debunks the claim.An image of a Sikh man holding a placard with the text "Release all mainstream and Pro-Freedom Kashmiri Leadership, Dal Khalsa, SAD (Amritsar)", is doing rounds on social media. The image is being shared in context with the ongoing farmers' protest. It has gone viral with the caption, "In the last three decades, terrorists have killed many kids, and when these leaders of Hurriyat supported the terrorists, then my heart used to wail. Now when Narendra Modi Ji has locked them in jail then youth in farmers' protest are demanding their release, the soul of his ancestors must be crying seeing this. 


edited picture of Shah Rukh Khan gone viral on social media because of his close resemblance with a Kashmiri boy is created through FaceApp, a mobile application for photo editing using artificial intelligence and is not real. Some websites have also published the image with the same claim.India Today Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA) has found that this is not an image of a Kashmiri boy who looks like Shah Rukh Khan. The viral image is an edited version of SRK’s photograph created through FaceApp, a mobile application for photo editing using artificial intelligence.
Islamist militants stormed natural gas and oil production facilities in northwest Pakistan on Tuesday, kills six persons in total which four are police and two are private guards , police and the operator confirmed.The attack by up to 50 militants took place at facilities run by MOL Pakistan Oil and Gas Company, a unit of Hungary's MOL, in Hangu district near the Afghan border, police official Irfan Khan said. Police said the militants targeted two wells, known as M-8 and M-10, with heavy weapons, including rocket-propelled grenades.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) - also known as the Pakistani Taliban - claimed responsibility for the attack.The TTP have operated for years from remote mountains in the northwest, launching attacks on security forces and infrastructure in their campaign against the state.
China, Pakistan and Iran held their first trilateral meeting on counter-terrorism in Beijing on Wednesday, the Chinese foreign ministry said in a statement. The three countries had "in-depth" exchanges on the regional counter-terrorism situation, and decided to hold the meeting on a regular basis, the ministry said.
Pakistan's government will present its annual budget to parliament on Friday needing to satisfy the IMF to have any chance of securing the release or more bailout money. The risk of default on sovereign debt is rising, with the economy creaking under twin deficits and record high inflation, which has further dented the popularity of Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif's coalition ahead of the vote. The economy could slide closer to the cliff edge as a result of the latest bout of political instability, with former Prime Minister Imran Khan, the main opposition leader, locked in a dangerous struggle with the country's powerful military.


Hundreds of people rallied in Pakistan-ruled Kashmir on Monday to protest arch rival against India's decision to host a G20 tourism meeting in its part of the disputed Himalayan region, said a government official.New Delhi is hosting the key conference in Kashmir summer capital Srinagar from Monday to Wednesday, a move which Pakistan and longtime ally China have opposed. Several protesters demonstrated in Muzaffarabad, capital of Pakistan-administered Kashmir, and other cities, chanting: "Go India go back and boycott, boycott G20 boycott!" , said the official Raja Azhar Iqbal.Pakistan's Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari visited the region and addressed Kashmir legislative assembly on Monday. He termed the G20 gathering as illegal, and an attempt by India to seek legitimacy over its control of the disputed region.
The President of former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan's party was arrested in the eastern city of Lahore on Thursday on charges of corruption, a government official said. Pakistan is beset by political turmoil as Khan's party has faced a countrywide crackdown since his own arrest on May 9 for suspected graft sparked widespread protests that saw mobs ransacking state installations, including military assets.Pervez Elahi, president of Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaf party, joins a long list of key PTI leaders arrested in the security swoop to halt turmoil that has threatened to worsen instability in a country reeling from a crippling financial crisis.
Pakistan can have only one and last remaining board review under the current bailout package of the IMF before its budget is unveiled on June 9, itself a step towards a successful review, a Fund official said on Thursday. "To pave the way for a final review under the current EFF, it is essential to restore the proper functioning of the foreign exchange market," the multilateral lender's resident representative for Pakistan, Esther Perez Ruiz, told the media.Other factors included passing a budget for the 2024 fiscal year that met program objectives, and securing firm and credible financing commitments to close a $6-billion gap ahead of the board review, she added.
Pakistan is likely to post GDP growth of 0.29% in the fiscal year ending June 2023, the country's economic survey released on Thursday said, well below the target of 5% set last year. The country's economy has suffered record high inflation and an economic slowdown compounded by devastating floods last year and a failure so far to unlock crucial finances from the International Monetary Fund. Finance Minister Ishaq Dar told a news conference on the annual report that 0.29% GDP growth was a "realistic achievement" and anything higher was not achievable.
Pakistani authorities have arrested Fourteen people in connection with the alleged trafficking of several migrants who drowned last week after their overloaded boat capsized in the sea off Greece, police said. Hundreds of people, including from Pakistan, are thought to have died when the vessel capsized and sank in one of Europe's deadliest shipping disasters in recent years. The Pakistani government has ordered a high-level inquiry to investigate the human trafficking network thought to be involved, a statement from Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif's office said.
Pakistan's Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Sunday said the first cargo of discounted Russian crude oil arranged under a new deal struck between Islamabad and Moscow had arrived in Karachi. "Glad to announce that the first Russian discounted crude oil cargo has arrived in Karachi and will begin oil discharge tomorrow," Sharif tweeted."This is the first ever Russian oil cargo to Pakistan and the beginning of a new relationship between Pakistan and Russian Federation," he added. A port official said on Sunday evening that the oil was in the process of being unloaded. The discounted crude offers a relief to Pakistan, which is facing a payments crisis and is at risk of defaulting on its debt.
Imran Khan has cut an increasingly isolated figure. Since Pakistan’s former prime minister was released from jail, after a brief but explosive attempt to arrest him last month, his return has been marked by a mass exodus of the top leadership of his party, on a scale that has surprised even his critics. Late on Thursday night, Pervez Khattak, the former chief minister and defence minister, became the latest high-profile resignation from Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. He followed in the path of Khan’s former finance minister, his former human rights minister, his former information minister and his former shipping minister, who all stepped down from senior posts or left PTI altogether in recent weeks. Dozens of other federal and state ministers have followed suit.


Broadcast journalists in Pakistan have decried a de facto ban on mentioning or giving airtime to Imran Khan by name or showing his image after a series of directives issued by the country’s media regulator. Pakistan’s parliament ousted Khan from parliament in April last year. Since then he has been making nearly daily headlines with fiery speeches and tweets directed at the government and army. In March, the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (Pemra) banned broadcasts of the former prime minister’s speeches and press conferences on the grounds that he was promoting hate speech and attacking state institutions.
Amina Hanif remembers the day she turned up for her first football trial. She was 14 and eager to impress the coaches at Watford with her nimble footwork and sheer pace. But, as she made her way from the car park to the training ground, she asked herself some serious questions.Amina Hanif further said “I like being different – the hijab means I stand out on the pitch more. The only challenge I have nowadays is adjusting my headscarf after heading the ball or hiding my pins from the referee before the game. I've been offered a Nike hijab, but I'm counting on my own becoming iconic,” she says.

Tracking data suggests an overcrowded fishing boat that sank off the Greek coast last week with the feared loss of hundreds of lives had not moved for several hours before it capsized, contradicting accounts from the Hellenic coast guard. As Pakistani police said on Monday they believed up to 800 people were onboard, a Guardian analysis of ship movements supplied by the MariTrace service indicated two vessels – the Lucky Sailor and the Faithful Warrior – stood by or circled round the stationary trawler for at least four hours.
Pakistan's army says militants attacked a security checkpoint in the country's northwest triggering a shootout that left 3 soldiers and 3 militants dead. Militants attacked a security checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan, along the border with Afghanistan, triggering a shootout that left three soldiers and three militants dead, the army said Sunday.Four militants were also wounded, the military said in a statement. The overnight shootout early Saturday took place in the Miran Shah tribal area of North Waziristan district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, a former stronghold of the Pakistani Taliban, a militant group also known as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan or TTP.
Hamid Mir said I am not a big fan of Imran Khan. I have long criticised Pakistan’s former prime minister, but now it is becoming difficult to do so. There is a de facto ban on referring to him in the media. Hamid Mir further said i am no longer allowed to mention his name or show his picture and Pakistani TV channels are not allowed to interview him or air his statements. This is the result of a series of directives issued by the media regulator. As prime minister, Imran Khan tried to turn Pakistan from a struggling democracy into an autocracy. His successor, Shehbaz Sharif, appears to be following in his footsteps.Once upon a time I was one of Khan’s favourite journalists (despite the fact that I advised him in 1995 not to go into politics). When I was banned from broadcasting my talk show in 2007 by the Musharraf regime, Khan stood by me.
the PCB chief has said Senior International Cricket Council (ICC) officials are set to travel to Pakistan to secure the country’s participation in this year’s 50-over World Cup in India which has been in doubt for political reasons.Pakistan may not play in the World Cup in India if it loses Asia Cup hosting rights. Bilateral cricket has been a casualty of the soured relations between India and Pakistan over the last decade, and the neighbours play each other only in multi-team events at neutral venues.
At least 11 people have been killed after an avalanche hit members of a nomadic tribe as they crossed a mountainous area in northern Pakistan, the country’s disaster management agency has said. “Such incidents are rising in Pakistan due to the impact of climate change,” Pakistan’s Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif said in a statement on Saturday.Pakistan, which in recent years has faced record monsoon rains and glacier melt in northern mountains, is among the top 10 countries at risk of natural disasters due to rising temperatures.Sharif called on the international community to fulfil its responsibility to save developing countries facing economic challenges from adverse effects of climate change.
Heavy rains pounded Pakistan’s northwest regions collapsing houses and killing at least 25 people. Rains and hail hit the Bannu, Lakki Marwat, and Karak districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on Saturday, senior rescue officer Khateer Ahmed said.Another 145 people were injured as uprooted trees knocked down electrical transmission towers. Officials were working to provide emergency relief to the wounded, Ahmed said. Last month, about a dozen people, including women and children, were killed by an avalanche during unusual snowfall in the summer.
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have higher rates of diabetes than whites, and are prone to developing Type 2 diabetes at younger ages and lower body weights than the general U.S. population. Among Asian subgroups, the risk of diabetes is especially high among South Asians, Filipinos and Pacific Islanders.A group of Asian American researchers are trying to figure out why – and design programs like this to bring down the rates. They're digging for root causes and better solutions while pushing for their communities to make healthier adjustments now. Here's some of what they've learned can make a difference.
India’s presidency of the G20 group of leading nations has become mired in controversy after China and Saudi Arabia boycotted a meeting staged in Kashmir, the first such gathering since India unilaterally brought Kashmir under direct control in August 2019. The meeting, a tourism working group attended by about 60 delegates from most G20 countries taking place from Monday to Wednesday, required a large show of security at Srinagar international airport. Indian authorities hoped the meeting would show that the controversial changes have brought “peace and prosperity” to the region and that it is a safe place for tourists.
The city with the highest air pollution levels last year was Lahore in Pakistan. The average PM2.5 concentration there for 2022 was 97.4 μg/m³. For comparison, WHO recommends PM2.5 levels of 10 μg/m³ for safe and healthy breathing. Hotan, China, takes the second slot, followed by Bhiwadi, India, in third. India occupies six places in the top 10 alone. Like most other countries on this list, India’s industrial production has had disastrous consequences for its air quality.This list from Elements.VisualCapitalist.com is based on IQAir World Air Quality Report for 2022. Each city’s air quality was judged by the amount of fine particulate matter in the air exceeding 2.5 micrometers in diameter. At that size, particles can have a harmful impact on the lungs and other major organs when inhaled.
More than 100,000 people had been evacuated in India and Pakistan ahead of the expected landfall Thursday of a fierce cyclone which could devastate homes and tear down power lines.
The government of Pakistan has made yet another appeal to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to release the $1.1bn tranche, pending since November last year,. As the $6.5bn loan programme nears its scheduled expiry at the end of June. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif met IMF’s managing director Kristalina Georgieva in Paris on Thursday and said the country has completed all the requirements asked for by the lender.Sharif added that Pakistan was “fully committed” to fulfilling its obligations, according to a statement issued by the prime minister’s office. Sharif, who is in France to attend the Summit for a New Global Financial Pact, expressed his hope that the funds would be released at the earliest and would “help strengthen Pakistan’s ongoing efforts towards economic stabilisation, and bring relief to its people”, the statement read.
Pakistan is considering banning former Prime Minister Imran Khan’s party for attacking the state, says the defence minister, a decision likely to enrage his supporters and exacerbate his confrontation with the military establishment. The former cricket star is embroiled in the latest, critical phase of a decades-old rivalry between civilian politicians and the powerful military, which has ruled directly or overseen governments throughout Pakistan’s history.The face-off has brought widespread protests by Khan’s supporters, raising new fears about the stability of the nuclear-armed country as it struggles with its worst economic crisis in decades.
A suicide bomber has targeted a security checkpoint in northwestern Pakistan, killing four people including two soldiers, a policeman and a civilian , security officials said. It was the second attack to hit Pakistan in as many days.The bombing happened on Wednesday in North Waziristan, a district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province that borders Afghanistan and is a former stronghold of the Pakistan Taliban, also known as TTP.A number of civilians were also wounded in the attack, according to Rehmat Khan, a local police official.
A court in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore has handed 16 civilians to the military for trial over their suspected involvement in violent protests this month following the arrest of former Prime Minister Imran Khan.The military said the suspects handed over on Thursday would be tried in its courts, which are primarily used to try enemies of the state.Khan was arrested on May 9. His supporters rampaged through cities, setting fire to buildings, blocking roads and clashing with police outside military installations during unrest in which nine people were killed.
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has been formally named in connection with the killing of a lawyer who accused him of high treason. Khan has called the accusation “foolish”. Lawyer Abdul Razzaq Shar was on his way to the Balochistan High Court complex in Quetta on Tuesday when he was shot by unknown gunmen, according to a criminal complaint filed on Wednesday. Police officials told Al Jazeera that Shar was shot more than 10 times in his car and died instantly.Shar’s son, Siraj Ahmed, filed the complaint against the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, accusing the ex-premier of abetting murder, saying he believed his father was killed in connection with the case he had filed against Khan.
The Pakistani military has vowed to punish the “planners and masterminds” of the violence that erupted last month after former Prime Minister Imran Khan’s brief arrest in a corruption case led to widespread unrest. After a meeting of its top brass in Rawalpindi on Wednesday, the military said it was determined to bring people who attacked military installations and monuments to justice. It also denied allegations of human rights abuses after Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party said some of its members were tortured and physically abused in custody. “In this regard, efforts to create distortions and attempts to take refuge behind imaginary and mirage human rights violations to create smoke screen for hiding the ugly faces of all involved, are absolutely futile,” it said in a statement.
Nearly two weeks ago, a short video emerged on social media showing Pakistani journalist and political commentator Imran Riaz Khan being escorted out of Sialkot International Airport by a group of police officers. The controversial 47-year-old commentator, with more than three million followers on YouTube, hasn’t been seen publicly since and neither his family nor police appear to know where he is.Speaking from Lahore, Usman Riaz Khan said that the family was told by sources with the Punjab police that his brother had been taken to the police station after being arrested at Sialkot airport.
Pakistan’s annual inflation rate has risen to 37.97 percent in May, the statistics bureau said, setting a national record for the second month in a row. The bureau’s announcement on Thursday worsens the economic crisis in the South Asian country as crucial bailout talks with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) remain stalled and the risk of defaulting on debts looms.The bureau in April said Pakistan’s consumer price index (CPI) was at 36.5 percent – already the highest in the country as well as the South Asian region. Sri Lanka, which is slowly recovering from a two-year economic crisis, posted annual inflation of 25.2 percent in May. Pakistan’s month-on-month rise in May was 1.58 percent, the bureau said in a statement, adding vegetables, pulses, wheat, wheat flour, rice, eggs and chicken in food items and fuel and gas prices caused the increase.
A prominent human rights organisation Amnesty has issued an urgent plea for global action to protect Pakistan from extreme heat waves, saying the South Asian country is at the “frontline of the climate crisis”.In a report to mark World Environment Day on Monday, Amnesty International said Pakistanis are particularly vulnerable to heat waves because they lack the means to protect themselves against high temperatures.The report, titled A Burning Emergency: Extreme Heat and the Right to Health in Pakistan, examined the impact of searing heat waves on people living in some of the world’s hottest cities.


Pakistan has received its first shipment of Russian crude oil under a discounted agreement signed between the two countries in April, but experts believe it will be too soon to say if the deal will provide significant benefit to domestic consumers. The cargo carrying 45,000 metric tonnes of crude oil arrived at the southern city of Karachi on Sunday while another 50,000 metric tonnes is expected to arrive later this week, according to the Pakistan Refinery Limited (PRL), where the crude oil will be processed.Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif called the arrival of the Russian crude a “transformative day” for the crisis-ridden country.
Prominent rights and press bodies have expressed extreme concern and slam after several Pakistani journalists and political commentators were charged with sedition earlier this week. The individuals include former newspaper editor Shaheen Sehbai, political commentators Wajahat Saeed Khan, Moeed Pirzada, Sabir Shakir, two former army officers-turned-YouTubers Adil Raja and Syed Haider Raza Mehdi, and another person identified as Syed Akbar Hussain.
A page on the World Economic Forum’s website listed Dawood as “Vice-Chairman, Engro Corporation, Dawood Hercules,” referring to his family’s firms, not the forum itself. shahzada dawood who died in the Titan submersible was a member of the World Economic Forum’s Family Business Community, but wasn't a vice-chairman , a spokesperson said.The Family Business Community connects “prominent family business leaders worldwide
All three papers reported news of the June 2023 Greece boat disaster on their front pages, as is also corroborated by their respective e-papers available online. On 18 June 2023, Twitter user @mustafa_wynne posted a picture (archive) showing three Pakistani newspapers — namely Dawn, Tribune, and The News — saying none of them reported on the Greece boat tragedy.Looking closely at the image shared by @mustafa_wynne, Soch Fact Check identified that all three newspapers carried a story each on the Greece boat disaster. Moreover, we also found that the relevant stories from each of the three papers — Dawn (archive), The News (archive), and Tribune (archive) — are also available in their respective e-papers
No evidence supports the claim that people in Pakistan’s Hunza Valley never get cancer. Claims about the exceptional longevity and good health of people in Pakistan’s Hunza Valley have been made for decades. However, there is no credible evidence supporting the notion that they are cancer-free or enjoy extraordinary lifespans. While some studies have explored the health and longevity of the Hunza people, they do not provide conclusive evidence that they are immune to cancer. Other factors, such as the relatively small population size and limited access to medical resources, may also influence the reporting and diagnosis of cancer cases in the region. The health of the Hunza people has been the subject of various books, and their diet has been marketed for promoting longevity. However, no studies specifically focusing on cancer rates in the valley have been found.
The available evidence only informs lumpy skin disease was detected in India before Pakistan so it's not true that pakistan spread lumpy disease.The available evidence does not suggest Pakistan spread lumpy skin disease. THIP MEDIA has previously found a social media post that claims a man in Pakistan died of the disease and did a fact check to debunk lumpy skin disease spreads to humans through cow milk. A document released by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) shows lumpy skin disease was first observed in India in 2019. By the time the FAO document was published in 2020, the disease was not detected in Pakistan.
A viral video shoes the Forced Conversion Of Hindus to Islam by giving electric shocks in Peshawar.A disturbing video showing visuals electrocuting children and hindus, who are seen writhing in pain, is circulating with false claims that Hindu minorities are forcibly being converted to Islam through electrocution in Pakistan's Peshawar. BOOM found that the viral video from 2020 shows an act of exorcism performed by a Muslim faith healer; the fake faith healer, named Muhammad Ullah was later arrested by the Peshawar Police.The video was also shared on Facebook with the same claim. 





An old video of a group of people vandalising a Hindu temple has been attacked by Muslims with a false claim that the incident happened in a temple in Sri Lanka. The same video was earlier viral as an incident of West Bengal. BOOM had then found that the video shows an old incident, which happened on August 4, 2021, when a mob vandalised a Hindu temple in Pakistan Rahim Yar Khan district. In the video, an angry mob break the entrance door, enter the temple and start vandalising the interiors. Some people can be seen breaking glasses, pelting stones inside the temple while others record the act on their phones.The reports mentioned that the incident took place in Pakistan's Punjab province.
A viral video showing a Muslim woman disrupting prayers at a mosque in Virginia, United States on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr is being circulated online with a false claim that the woman is a Hindu but in real she is a muslim with mental illness . BOOM found that the claim is false and that the All Dulles Area Muslim Society (ADAMS) in Sterling, Virginia clarified that the woman is a Muslim and has been suffering from mental health issues. The 57-second-long video shows a woman in a white saree and scarf draped over her shoulder arguing with security personnel inside the prayer hall. The video later shows her being escorted out of the mosque forcefully by security personnel.
Transparency International released a survey ranking Pakistan’s police force as being perceived to be the most corrupt institution in the country and the army was not included in the survey. A graphic posted on social media claims that Pakistan’s army has been named the country’s most corrupt institution by Transparency International. The logo of the digital news outlet Startup Pakistan can also be seen on the graphic. Soch Fact Check found that the statement on the graphic is false. Furthermore, we could not find any evidence that Startup Pakistan had uploaded any such news on their official platforms.
The viral photo claiming that Home Minister of India Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah posing with Pakistan Army General’s son Saad Bajwa is fake. The people in the photo are Jay Shah, Indian Actress Urvashi Rautela and her brother Yashraj Rautela.Jay Shah was indeed in close proximity to Pakistan Army General’s son Saad Bajwa at the said event. While sitting at the VVIP gallery to watch the match, Jay Shah can be seen sitting along with Saad Bajwa and a Sheik whose identity could not be verified at this point. The person in this particular image is indeed Pakistan Army General Qamar Bajwa’s son but this particular image did not receive the same notoriety as the one above.
Image of Indian army handing over a 7 year old Pakistani child’s dead body shared with a false claim that Pakistani army showing white flag to retrieve dead bodies of terrorists.A simple reverse-image search of the picture on Google was enough to establish that it is not related to the recent skirmish on the LoC. The photograph is of July 2019, and pertains to the handing over of the body of a seven year old Pakistani boy who had fallen off a cliff into the river in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK). According to a report by NDTV published on July 12, 2019.Moreover, the same information was tweeted on July 11, 2019, by the official Twitter account of the Indian army. Journalist Aditya Raj Kaul had also tweeted about it, along with the picture now being shared with the false narrative.In conclusion, it may be stated that the photograph in question is of July 2019 and is unrelated to the recent combat at the Line of Control in J&K.
Military drill video from Turkey is being falsely shared as Pakistan army’s firing on India at the LoC.The video was taken during the EFES-2018 Military Exercise, which was held in Turkey. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.When the screenshots of the video were run through the Yandex Reverse Image Search, a lot of similar videos were found in the search results. One of those videos had the description that it was taken at the EFES-2018 Military Exercise. So, when searched with the keywords ‘EFES 2018 exercise’, an article by ‘Yeni Safak’ with the title – ‘Turkey launches EFES 2018 military drills’ can be found in the search results. In the article, the same video can be found with the description – ‘Footage shows domestically-produced Turkish ATAK helicopters perfectly striking targets during the EFES 2018 military drill’.
Fake videos claiming to show Pakistan Army personnel dancing with Wing Commander Abhinandan were circulated widely.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday, 28 February, had announced that his country will release captured Indian Air Force pilot Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman on Friday, 1 March, as a "gesture of peace." The announcement came a day after the pilot was captured by Pakistan when his MiG fighter jet was shot down during an aerial combat.Amid escalating tensions between India and Pakistan, many Twitter users reacted to the video, with some saying it was “moment of love between" the two countries.
India and Pakistan traded fire in the Tangdhar sector of Kupwara district in North Kashmir on October 20. While India claims to have lost two soldiers and killed at least six Pakistani army men, the neighbouring country claimed to have lost only one soldier and killed nine Indian army men. Both nations have rejected each other’s claims.An old photo was therefore shared as recent by several Pakistani user that Indian army soldiers killed by Pakistani army in Kupwara
An old video of Pakistan Army abusing Taliban suspects is falsely shared as Indian Army beating Kashmiri Muslims.A video of a few men being whipped and kicked by men in uniform is being falsely shared widely with the misleading and wrong claim that it shows Indian Army personnel beating Kashmiri Muslims.
CNN Screenshot Claiming OceanGate Submersible "Found Empty" Is Fake. viral screenshot is fake and no such news report was published by CNN on OceanGate Expeditions Titan submersible being "found empty".A CNN News report screenshot reporting that OceanGate Expeditions Titan submersible which had gone missing in the Atlantic Ocean on a voyage to the century-old wreck of the Titanic was "found empty" is fake. BOOM found no such report published by the news outlet and the screenshot has fake quotes and attributions. US based company OceanGate Expeditions' Titan submersible went missing on June 18, 2023, in the Atlantic Ocean carrying five people on board. The U.S. Coast Guard on June 22, 2023, said that it had found pieces of the vessel and that a "catastrophic implosion" killed everyone aboard ending a multinational five-day search for the vessel. 


An old video of a group of people vandalising a Hindu temple has been attacked by Muslims with a false claim that the incident happened in a temple in Sri Lanka. The same video was earlier viral as an incident of West Bengal. BOOM had then found that the video shows an old incident, which happened on August 4, 2021, when a mob vandalised a Hindu temple in Pakistan Rahim Yar Khan district. In the video, an angry mob break the entrance door, enter the temple and start vandalising the interiors. Some people can be seen breaking glasses, pelting stones inside the temple while others record the act on their phones.The reports mentioned that the incident took place in Pakistan's Punjab province.
Document of Imran khan's Arrest which goes viral is fabricated, and no such deal was made between Imran Khan, the US Ambassador, and the Interior Secretary.A fabricated document that claims to show an agreement signed between former Pakistan PM and chairman of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) Imran Khan and the government of Pakistan is going viral online. The document claims to show the terms of Imran Khan's arrest, which include points such as him not being raped or interrogated naked. BOOM found that the document is fabricated and no such agreement was made between the two parties.The document purporting to state the terms of Khan's arrest, is being shared in this context to claim that Khan entered a deal with the government of Pakistan and the US Ambassador, which assured that he would not be raped or interrogated while being naked during his arrest.


An old video showing former cricketer and current Chairman of Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Ramiz Raja lashing out at the Pakistan cricket team is being falsely circulated on social media as recent. BOOM found that the video is old, and was uploaded on Ramiz Raja's YouTube channel on Apr 23, 2021. In a tweet, former Pakistani pacer Mohammad Amir slammed PCB chairman Ramiz Raja and chief selector Mohammad Wasim following the team's defeat against Zimbabwe in the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2022. The video has been shared following Amir's comments..


Social media posts claiming Pakistani cricketer Yasir Shah died in the Pakistan Airlines flight which crashed in Karachi, are false. BOOM reached out to Pakistan Cricket Board who said that the posts are false and that Shah was never on the plane that crashed. A Pakistan Airlines flight - PK 833 crashed in Model Colony near Jinnah international airport, Karachi. The flight with 85 passengers and six crew members was headed to Karachi from Lahore and is said to have crashed minutes before landing. According to media reports, 92 people have died due to the crash while two passengers have said to have survived the crash.
A photo of a road from a park in Patuakhali town in Bangladesh is being shared with the false claim that it shows Boulevard Road in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir which has been given a makeover for the G20 tourism working group meeting.The third G20 tourism working group meeting will take place from May 22, 2023, to May 24 at the SKICC on the banks of the Dal Lake in Srinagar. The viral photo was tweeted by Wajahat Farooq Bhat, Chairman of a Jammu Kashmir-based NGO Save Youth Save Future with the caption, "Witness the transformation! Boulevard Road in Srinagar has been given a magnificent makeover to welcome delegates from across the world for the #G20Kashmir summit. The road now radiates beauty, showcasing our commitment to hosting a remarkable event.." ANI and Greater Kashmir also uploaded similar videos of people enjoying the festive celebrations.
A video showing a grand procession being carried out on the streets is being shared on the internet, falsely claiming that it shows Ram Navami celebrations in Pakistan which is wrong.To check the claim veracity, we performed a keyword search on Google which did not lead us to any credible media reports that contained the visuals in the viral post. We then ran the video through the InVid tool and performed a reverse image search on a few keyframes obtained in the process. When run through the Google lens, the Urdu text on one of the keyframes was revealed to be ‘Kashmiri Pandits in Srinagar.’
A video showing, a train running on a railway bridge connecting two mountains at a very high altitude, is going viral on social media with a claim that it shows the Chenab bridge of Jammu and Kashmir. however it is from china in real.
The viral photo is not a Photo of a building Damaged After the recent earthquake in Kashmir as this photo is from Turkey, which experienced strong earthquakes on 6 February. Social media users shared a photo of a damaged building claiming that it showed a structure in Kashmir that was destroyed after a recent earthquake which hit parts of northern India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan on 21 March.The claim further states that three people were killed as a result of the collapse.
Filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri misleadingly claimed on Tuesday that his movie the kashmir Files has been shortlisted by the Academy Awards for the 2022 Oscars which is wrong, a claim that was amplified by several Indian news outlets. BOOM found Agnihotri's tweets to be an exaggeration as the film has qualified for the Oscars along with 300 other films. The qualification does not confirm a nomination at the Oscars. The Academy Award nominations will be announced later this month on January 24, 2023. In a tweet on January 10, Agnihotri wrote, "BIG ANNOUNCEMENT: #TheKashmirFiles has been shortlisted for #Oscars2023 in the first list of @TheAcademy. It's one of the 5 films from India. I wish all of them very best. A great year for Indian cinema". 


the claim of ‘RRR’ being the first movie to be screened in cinema theatres in Kashmir after 1947 is wrong. The findings suggest that Kashmir had several functional cinemas till the militancy began in the 1990s.According to the report, the government in 1999, made efforts to reopen cinema theatres in Kashmir like Neelam, Regal and Broadway in Srinagar, but the attack on Regal Cinema led to the closure once again.
It is false to claim that the people in Kashmir have not paid any electricity bill in the last 70 years. We found notifications from the state department talking about electricity tariffs and also accessed old bills from people, which debunks this claim.A video showing some women breaking electricity meters on the road has gone viral on different social media platforms with a claim that women in Kashmir resisted setting up of electric meters in their area.The claim further added that people in Kashmir didn't want to pay for essentials like electricity, water, etc, as they have received free electricity for almost 70 years.
The CBFC issued directions to edit, not ban the song 'Jannat Ki Hai Tasveer Yeh' by Mohammed Rafi. by Pakistan government's request.A video of a song, titled 'Jannat Ki Hai Tasveer Yeh', sung by late singer Mohammed Rafi is being shared on social media platforms. The video is being shared to insinuate that since the song discusses the issue of Pakistan staking a claim over Kashmir, the Pakistani government in 1966 had asked its Indian counterpart to ban the song, and the Indian government obliged.
Viral Video Of Kashmiri Muslim Man Apologising To Pandits In ‘Pakistani Channel’ Is Actually From A Kashmiri News Channel Based In India.
Video shared with false claim that a temple was set ablaze in Kashmir by Muslims . The video has been shared against the backdrop of a spate of recent attacks against the minority Hindu and Sikh communities in Kashmir. Militant outfit, The Resistant Force (TRF), claimed responsibility for the attack in a school where two teachers were killed.Speaking to Global News Service (GNS), officials from the Fire Department revealed that the burnt buildings included some wooden structures and houses.Alt News performed a keyword search which led us to a tweet by DD News Srinagar dated October 7. It stated that a fire had broken out in the Parimpora area of ​​Srinagar. They suspected that the accident was caused by a short circuit.Other outlets like Kashmir Patriot and QNS TV also covered the fire. However, there is no mention of a temple being burnt anywhere in these reports. Noor Mohammad Sheikh of Jammu and Kashmir’s ‘Apni Party’ met with members of the affected locality.


In August 2017, Israel announced that it will never support Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir. But, Israel has not given any such advice to India to print “KASHMIR BELONGS TO INDIA” on currency notes. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE.When we searched to check whether Israeli officials had made any such statement recently on Kashmir, we could not find any news report about Israel’s advice to print “KASHMIR BELONGS TO INDIA” on Indian currency notes. In August 2017, Israeli officials had made a press statement that Israel will never support Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir. Israel had endorsed the Indian Government’s position on Kashmir and mentioned Kashmir as an integral part of India.
The woman in the video has explained to Rahul Gandhi about the existing situation in Kashmir due to the restrictions in place after the abrogation of Article 370 and is not arguing . She hasn't spoken anything that was claimed in the post. Hence, the claim made in the post stands FALSE.In the entire video, a woman can be seen speaking to Rahul Gandhi. She narrated to Rahul Gandhi about the conditions in which the Kashmiris are living due to the existing restrictions there. She has spoken in Hindi and its English translation is- ‘Even children aren't allowed to step out of their houses.
A video that shows a group of officials with JCB machines demolishing semi-constructed structures is being massively shared online to claim that it shows the authorities in Jammu and Kashmir demolishing the houses of “Rohingya Muslims” however the destruction don't have any connection with Rohingya Muslims. The text along with video goes on to claim that the houses were established under the “Roshni Act”, which has been scrapped. However, we found that the video does show a demolition drive but has no connection with Rohingyas.Speaking to The Quint’s WebQoof team, Jammu and Kashmir Lakes & Waterways Development Authority, Enforcement Officer (Dy SP) Abdul Aziz Qadri said that the department undertakes these drives to remove illegal constructions and encroachments in the area.
A video with a caption claiming a 'Saudi Prince' expressed his opinion on the Kashmir issue doing the rounds on social media, is false as the speaker in the video is a Muslim cleric and not related to the Saudi royal family. The video is accompanied with the caption, "Opinion of Saudi Prince in Kashmir issue, see how beautifully he expressed his opinion."The person claimed to be a Saudi prince is actually Imam Mohamad Tawhidi, a Shia Muslim cleric. Tawhidi, popularly known as the 'Imam of Peace' is an Australian based cleric, known for speaking against radical Islamic ideology. 



Yasin Malik is alive. The DG of Tihar Prison has clarified that the rumours about Malik’s death are false. He also said that the health of Yasin Malik is fine. Hence the claim made in the post is FALSE. When searched about the news of Yasin Malik’s death, it was found that DD News and other news channels have tweeted on this issue. The DD News has tweeted that while talking to PTI, the Tihar Prison DG Sandeep Goel has clarified that there is no truth in the rumours that Yasin Malik had died. He also said that the health of Yasin Malik is fine.Also, it can be found that Aditya Raj Kaul (Editor, Strategic Affairs & Internal Security at BTVI) has tweeted a video in which Tihar Jail Additional IG Raj Kumar issued a clarification on the issue.
An Indian model’s morphed photo falsely shared as ‘Teacher suspended for her body shape in Lahore , Pakistan’.he Instagram profile of the woman in the photo was found. Her name is ‘Zoya Shaik’ and she wrote in her Instagram profile that she is – ‘Actor, fashion blogger. Fashion Model’. She posted the same photo on her profile on 14 February 2020. Other photos and videos of her in the same dress can be found on her profile. She has also featured in some vlogs and music videos. Further, she is from India. So, the Lahore Teacher suspension story is fake.
Qatar and Kuwait Governments did not issue any orders to expel Swedish Citizens in response to the Quran burning in Sweden.In the wake of several Islamic countries condemning the act of a protester burning a copy of the Quran outside Stockholm’s central Mosque on the first day of Eid Al Adha, on 28 June 2023, this post is going viral on social media. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.Upon searching for further details, we found a statement issued by Qatar’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs protesting the burning of Quran copies in Sweden. Condemning the Sweden government’s permission for extremists to burn Quran copies outside the central Mosque in Stockholm, Qatar’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that the heinous incident is an act of incitement and a serious provocation to the feelings of more than two billion Muslims in the world.
A video showing a grand procession being carried out on the streets is being shared on the internet, falsely claiming that it shows Ram Navami celebrations in Pakistan which is wrong.To check the claim veracity, we performed a keyword search on Google which did not lead us to any credible media reports that contained the visuals in the viral post. We then ran the video through the InVid tool and performed a reverse image search on a few keyframes obtained in the process. When run through the Google lens, the Urdu text on one of the keyframes was revealed to be ‘Kashmiri Pandits in Srinagar.’
The original photo about the miracle baby born with six legs does not show the Lord shiva tattoo on the boy’s forehead and the photo is morphed and edited. The baby in the photo was born in Pakistan, with a rare genetic disorder called polymelia. A team of five doctors from the National Institute of Child Health (NICH) in Karachi successfully separated the extra legs from the baby in 2012. Hence, the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.the same photo of a baby born with six limbs was found in an article published by the ‘First Post’ news website on 18 April 2022. But the original photo shared in the article does not show the lord shiva symbol on the baby’s forehead.
While it is true that the name of the person in the photo is Muzammil Bota, he is not an Afghanistan cricketer as he is a kabaddi player from Pakistan. It is reported that he passed away recently. Hence the claim made in the post is MISLEADING.A logo with the name – ‘Thru Media’ can be seen on the photo. The uncropped version of the same photo can be found on the ‘Thru Media’ social media page. On reading the comments on that post, it was found that he is Muzammil Bota, a kabaddi player from Pakistan. The ‘International Kabaddi Club’ Facebook page has also made a lot of posts regarding the death of Muzammil Bota.
The video shared in the post shows an old training video of Sindh police women commandos in Pakistan not the Training video of indian army . The video shared in the post is old and had nothing to do with India. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE. On reverse image search of the screenshots in the video, a video with similar visuals is found published by a few Pakistani media channels and users in August 2019. When we searched for further sources, we found the same video on the Facebook page of a Pakistan-based news and media website, Karachi Walay. This news website published the video reporting it as the training visuals of Sindh women commandos in Pakistan.
The video shared in the post shows a Pakistani citizen not indian muslim threatening an electricity officer while confessing to stealing electricity , in Karachi, in July 2020. The video shared in the post is old and from Pakistan. Hence, the claim made in the post is FALSE.On reverse image search of the screenshots of the video, a video with similar visuals was found in a tweet made by ‘Siasat.pk’ news channel on 28 July 2020. ‘Siasat.pk’ reported it as the visuals of a man boldly confessing to stealing electricity and openly threatening an officer in Karachi.When we searched for further sources, we found the same video published on the ‘ARY News’ official Facebook page. ‘ARY News’ confirmed it as the video from Karachi and mentioned the accused as Shahri Ataur Rehman.
A local Court Saturday upheld the maintainability of the Toshakhana case against Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan. Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADSJ), Islamabad, Humayun Dilawar, announced the reserved verdict, with the hearing set to take place on July 12. The witnesses have also been summoned on the same day. The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) had, on October 21 last year, disqualified the former prime minister in the Toshakhana reference under Article 63(1)(p) of the Constitution for making "false statements and incorrect declaration".
At least 7 people were killed and around 13 others injured when an LPG cylinder installed in a passenger van with around 20 onboard exploded in Bhalwal city of Sargodha district, police said on Saturday. The van, a white Toyota Hiace, with a substandard cylinder filled with LPG gas for fuel, was en route to Kot Momin when the unfortunate incident took place. The police said that the explosion took place due to a gas leak from the LPG cylinder. The vehicle caught fire right after the cylinder's explosion.
Thundershowers will take place in Karachi during the next 24 hours, PMD forecast Saturday. Several areas in the city witnessed drizzle in the early hours of the day. In its daily forecast report, the department added that thundershowers would take place today and tomorrow (June 9) as well. Humidity in the air is at 79%, the PMD added. In light of the rains, Mayor Karachi Barrister Murtaza Wahab Friday imposed a rain emergency in the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation. All the relevant departments of KMC will remain open 24 hours, including on holidays.
A court has issued a judgment against the current and former senior MQM leadership including Altaf Hussain and Syed Tariq Mir for nonpayment of nearly £1.5 million to the UK government’s tax and income department . According to information available with The News, the judgment in default has been issued by Northampton County Court Judge Henley on an application by the HMRC in its long-running civil tax and income dispute with the MQM leadership. The judgment has been issued against the MQM leader and founder Hussain, Mir, Iftikhar Ahmed, and Mohammed Kalimullah Syed in the case brought before the court by the HMRC.
The IMF delegation meeting with PTI Chairman Imran Khan is proof of the party's importance and relevance in the country's political setup , Raoof Hasan declared on Saturday. "The meeting of the IMF delegation [with Khan] proves the political relevance of PTI," said the former information minister in a statement, adding that it established PTI's political relevance "beyond any doubt". Hasan further contended that the "worst state brutality" was being used to "neutralise" his party; however, the world was eager to work with the PTI chairman as he would be the next elected prime minister of the country. 


The Govt approves on Friday approved the Pakistan foreign investment Policy 2023 through the circulation of a summary, which aims to bring $20-25bn in investment, the sources said. The people, familiar with the matter, said the policy was readied after consultations with the World Bank, International Finance Corporation, and provincial and federal institutions. In the new policy, the minimum equity rate for foreign investment has been abolished, the sources said. Foreign investors will be allowed to invest in all sectors except six, the sources said, without specifying which ones.Under the new policy, foreign investors will be allowed to remit the entire profit abroad in their own country's currency, they said. "Foreign investors will be given special protection," the sources added.
The police on Friday registered a case against an unidentified suspect for allegedly attempting to sexually assault a veiled woman in the Gulistan-e-Jauhar area of Karachi, The News reported. The FIR No 591/23 was registered on the state's behalf against the suspect who was caught on CCTV camera during the vile act under the Sections related to sexual harassment, desecration of a female, and committing obscene acts. A committee headed by the Gulshan-e-Iqbal superintendent of police was formed to investigate the case after a video went viral on Monday, showing a man attempting to sexually assault a woman who passed by him in a street of a neighbourhood in Gulistan-e-Jauhar.
The Supreme Court declared Friday that arresting an accused from the high court premises is unlawful and only deny them the right to access a competent court to safeguard his fundamental right of liberty . it also invite the law enforcers to treat the court premises as a hunting ground for capturing accused persons, especially when the latter seek judicial oversight of their pending arrests. A three-member bench of the apex court, headed by Chief Justice Umar Ata Bandial, issued a detailed judgment on the petition filed by Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan challenging the order of the Islamabad High Court that declared his arrest as lawful, The News reported. Justice Muhammad Ali Mazhar and Justice Athar Minanallh were the two other members of the bench. The bench on May 11, 2023 declared Khan's arrest from the IHC premises in Al Qadir Trust case illegal.
SAPM Interior Jawad Sohrab Malik Saturday took notice of an incident of a woman's harassment in the federal capital Islamabad and summoned a report from the capital's top cop. In a statement, the special assistant said the video of a woman being harassed in Islamabad F-9 Park went viral on social media was "unfortunate". "Until now, no person has registered a complaint. However, a case has been lodged on the complaint of a police officer of Margalla Police Station," the SAPM said. The special assistant added that a strategy to arrest the suspect had been devised. "The incident footage has been sent to Punjab Forensic Science Agency, and the images have been forwarded to Nadra," Malik said.
The former prime minister was arrested from the premises of Islamabad High Court (IHC) which is unlawful by the paramilitary forces on May 9, triggering violent protests and attacks on the civil and military installations in the country. Following Khan’s arrest, IHC CJ Farooq took notice of the matter on the same day, and summoned the Islamabad IGP and the interior secretary. Subsequently, the court summoned NAB DG and the anti-graft body's prosecutor general to appear in person. After hearing the arguments from all the parties, the IHC declared the deposed prime minister’s arrest “legal”.
The federal government has decided not to try women and underage suspects involved in attacks on civil and military installations during the violent protests in the aftermath of the arrest of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan on May 9. The riots were triggered almost across the country after the PTI chairman’s arrest in the £190 million Al-Qadir Trust case on May 9 which led to the deaths of at least eight people and injured several others, prompting the authorities to arrest thousands of PTI workers.
"50 deaths have been reported in different monsoon-related incidents all over Pakistan since the start of the monsoon on June 25," a National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) official told AFP. The majority of the deaths were in eastern Punjab, and were mainly due to electrocution and building collapses, official data showed. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the bodies of eight children were recovered from a landslide in the Shangla district on Thursday, according to the emergency service Rescue 1122's spokesman Bilal Ahmed Faizi.He said rescuers were still searching for other children trapped in the debris.Officials in Lahore, Pakistan's second-largest city, said it had received record-breaking rainfall on Wednesday, turning roads into rivers and leaving almost 35% without electricity and water this week. 


Five Pakistanis currently under investigation and arrested for travelling to Israel on Pakistani passports still have five members of their family in Israel. The remittances were wire transferred through Western Union in small amounts and received at its Mirpurkhas branch located in the General Post Office. A total amount of around Rs 2 million was remitted to Pakistan in a span of six years by some of the arrested individuals who were working in Israel as car washers or helpers. they have also told investigators that for personal security reasons, they concealed their religious identity during the course of their stay in Israel.
Greek authorities confirmed that there were 15 Pakistanis among those who lost their lives in the tragic boat disaster last month through fingerprint matching and DNAs, The News reported Friday.She said DNA reports that had been received were from people who feared that their loved ones might be on that boat.
Justice Mussarat Hilali was sworn in as a Supreme Court judge Friday, making her the second woman since Pakistan's independence to be elevated to the apex court. Chief Justice Umar Ata Bandial administered the oath to Justice Hilali at the top court in a ceremony attended by SC judges, Attorney General for Pakistan Mansoor Usman Awan, and members of the legal fraternity. With her appointment, the top court now has a total of 16 judges, with one slot vacant. Justice Hilali , the first woman chief justice of Peshawar High Court — will serve as the top court's judge for a period of three years before her retirement. She was also the first woman to become the CJ of any high court in the country.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif Thursday said Pakistan desired to improve its bilateral relations with the US in diverse fields, noting that the relation between the nations were "back to normal". Addressing a ceremony held to celebrate the 247th Independence Day of the US, he said, according to The News, that Pakistan and the US had made serious efforts to mend their ties, putting aside any misgivings and misunderstandings. He pledged his personal as head of the government and as a Pakistani to cultivate better and stronger relations with the US on the basis of mutual trust and respect.
The joint session of parliament on Thursday passed a resolution condemning the desecration of the Holy Quran in Stockholm and urged the Swedish government to take legal action against the man who burned the holy book. The despicable act of the public burning of a copy of the holy book in Stockholm on the occasion of Eid ul Adha sparked worldwide protests and outrage. An Iraqi man set a copy of the sacred book ablaze outside a mosque in the Swedish capital on June 28.The resolution was moved by Federal Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Murtaza Javed Abbas on the situation arising out of the desecration of the Holy Quran in Sweden in the joint sitting of parliament, which was chaired by National Assembly Speaker Raja Pervaiz Ashraf. 


Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has said that it is imperative to “reversing adverse actions” taken against Nawaz Sharif for the improvement of the prevailing crises in the country. In a detailed statement on his official Twitter handle on Thursday, the premier said he knew from day one that deposed PM Nawaz was framed in the Panama Papers scandal “with an aim to oust him from politics and topple his government”. The incumbent prime minister, who is also president of the ruling PML-N, said this while referring to the recent revelations of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf's (PTI) senior lawyer Hamid Khan wherein he claimed that the decision to disqualify Nawaz was already taken somewhere else while the Supreme Court’s decision in this regard was used to give it legal cover.
As many as 67 more cases of diarrhoea were reported from Karachi Malir district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 327. According to an official of the Sindh Health Department as many as 327 people including women and children infected with Acute Watery Diarrhoea (AWD) from June 28 till July 5. Whereas from January till June only one patient of AWD was brought dead to Murad Memon Hospital in the district while only three cases of cholera were reported in the first six months of the year.According to the spokesperson of health department, the water tanks were found contaminated and full of sludge and the outbreak is due to the vibrio cholerae/E-Coli virus which was found in main water supply.
In a major legal victory for Pakistan against its arch-rival India, the Court of Arbitration dismissed New Delhi's objection to the global justice body's jurisdiction over the Kishanganga Hydroelectric Project. The Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) is a non-UN intergovernmental organisation located in The Hague. The sources said that the court rejected the Indian objection and declared Pakistan’s case admissible. “It will now begin hearing the case on merit,” the sources added. Islamabad approached the court in 2007 when the water supply to the country was affected after New Delhi started work on the Kishanganga project.
At least 4 people lost their lives, and 14 sustained injuries in separate incidents as heavy rains battered Lahore for the second consecutive day. In a statement, Rescue 1122 said that the roof of a house near Bandianwala Bridge in Lahore's Amar Sidhu area collapsed, resulting in the death of the people. In the same incident, a 10-year-old was injured and later shifted to Lahore General Hospital for treatment. As many as 14 people — sitting under the "waiting shade" — were injured when a wall of the Government Mozang Teaching Hospital collapsed, a statement from the Rescue 1122 said.
Wahab Riaz, who landed in a controversy for splashing bikers on flooded roads after a heavy downpour in Lahore, has issued an apology over reckless driving. The Pakistani cricketer received public criticism after a video of him driving could be seen driving recklessly on the flooded roads and splashing rainwater onto the passing vehicle and motorcyclists. Responding to the criticism, Riaz said that he was "sorry for what happened" and claimed "it was purely unintentional".
In a shocking incident, Istehkam-e-Pakistan Party (IPP) chief Jahangir Tareen's brother Alamgir Tareen allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself in the head, officials and family members said Thursday. Initially, police sources said Alamgir, 63, allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Lahore Gulberg area. Later, the reports were confirmed by Jahangir. 
Meanwhile, the police higher-ups said that further details will be available when they visit the crime scene.
The Flood Forecasting Division (FFD) warned Thursday that heavy rainfall may lead to a "very high to exceptionally high level" of flooding in River Chenab between July 8-10.Due to these meteorological conditions, very high to exceptionally high level flooding is expected in River Chenab while the flood situation in rivers Ravi and Sutlej will depend upon releases from India, it added. However, the FFD cautioned a high to very high level of flooding is also expected in the nullahs of rivers Ravi and Chenab.
A Pakistan Army major embraced martyrdom during a gunbattle with terrorists in district Khyber's Shakas area, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said Thursday. The incident took place when security forces launched an intelligence-based operation (IBO) between the night of July 5-6 in the area after they received information about the presence of terrorists, the ISPR said. Major Mian Abdullah Shah, leading the operation from the front, spotted a part of the militants after the "establishment of blocking positions to cut the escape routes of terrorists was underway".
Sindh Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah has ordered the authorities to arrest the man who was caught sexually assaulting a woman on camera in the Gulistan-e-Johar area of Karachi, The News reported. The incident came to light when the CCTV footage of the heinous act went viral on social media. The footage showed a man arriving in a neighbourhood on a motorcycle and attempting to sexually assault a veiled woman who passed by him in broad daylight. However, the woman refused to be a victim and fought back, forcing the culprit to flee the scene due to resistance from his target. It may be noted that the motorcycle he was riding did not have a number plate, and the suspect was also wearing a mask to conceal his identity.
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan has been nominated in six cases, including the attacks on the General Headquarters (GHQ), military installations, and the incident of arson at Metro Station, in a major development in the probe of May 9 violence, The News reported. Sources said three of these cases had been registered on May 9 and the other three on May 10, under the Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA). The joint investigation teams (JITs) are carrying out a probe into all the cases, they added. Sources further stated that the cases had been registered at Civil Lines in Faisalabad, Samanabad, RA Bazar, and New Town police stations in Rawalpindi, City Police Station in Mianwali and Police Station Cantt in Gujranwala, on behalf of their respective police officials.
Adviser to Punjab interim Chief Minister on Sports and Youth Affairs Wahab Riaz on Wednesday received massive public criticism for splashing bikers and passersby on flooded roads in Lahore. Earlier today, incessant showers broke a 30-year-old record when the Punjab capital city received over 290mm of rain within a span of 10 hours, resulting in the death of at least seven people, officials said. The metropolis received 291mm of rain, during which more than a dozen areas recorded more than 200mm of rain, Commissioner Lahore Mohammad Ali Randhawa said, adding this is happening due to climate change and strong monsoon.
At least three soldiers embraced martyrdom when a vehicle-borne suicide bomber exploded himself in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's North Waziristan district, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said on Wednesday. According to the military’s media wing, the suicide bomber intended to target the security forces checkpost in the general area of Miran Shah, however, timely interception of the suicide bomber on suspicion by on-duty soldiers prevented a major catastrophe.The martyred soldiers were identified as Naib Subedar Sahib Khan, 41, a resident of Mianwali; Naik Muhammad Ibrahim, 40, a resident of Dera Ismail Khan; and Sepoy Jehangir Khan, 24, a resident of Mardan, the ISPR said, adding that three innocent civilians also sustained critical injuries in the suicide blast.
Michael Gahler, the head of the Election Observation Mission (EOM) of the EU Parliament, has said that the EU may not see the signs of election in Pakistan this year “because we are not sure about the general elections in Pakistan in 2023”. He said this while speaking to a group of Pakistani journalists in the EU Parliament who are visiting Belgium at the invitation of the European External Action Service. Gahler is a member of the EU Parliament since 1999 and headed the EOM of Pakistan in 2008, 2013 and 2018.He said that the EOM needed an invitation from the government of Pakistan to send their observation mission for the monitoring of the election at least three months before the election date. “But we have not received any invitation from Pakistan yet,” he added.
Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif has urged arch-rival India to take benefit of the multibillion-dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) infrastructure project instead of creating hurdles in its way. The premier said this in a statement on Wednesday to mark the completion of 10 years of CPEC. Highlighting the significance of the project, he said Iran, Afghanistan, the Middle East and the whole region would also benefit from the mega-development project.“CPEC is a beautiful plan to connect not only regions and areas but also people’s hearts,” he was quoted as saying in the statement issued by the PM Office.
The Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD) issued on Wednesday an urban flooding warning for several parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Punjab and Balochistan as the highest rainfall in decades turned Lahore into an urban swamp today. In a fresh weather advisory, the Met Office warned that heavy falls may generate urban flooding in low-lying areas in Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Attock, Kohat, Peshawar, Bannu, Kark, DI Khan, Kasur, Okara, Kohlu, Sibbi, Barkhan, Zhob, Musakhel and other areas. Landslide is also expected in hilly areas, it added.
Five Pakistanis who worked in Israel for up to seven years were arrested by the Federal Investigation Agency's (FIA) crime circle in Mirpur Khas for illegally migrating to Israel. The arrested suspects are among the eight Pakistanis booked in five cases under the sections of the Passport Act 1974 and the Emigration Ordinance 1979. Raids for the arrest of the remaining suspects are being made. As per details, the suspects illegally migrated to Israel by traveling through different countries like Turkey, Kenya, and Sri Lanka, and found employment there. They entered Israel on a European visa through Jordan, with the help of an Israeli agent, with each of them paying Rs300,000 to Rs400,000.
The Supreme Court (SC) was moved against the conviction of nearly 29 civilians by military courts during the government of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan, The News reported. The apex is already dealing with a set of petitions seeking the nullification of the orders of trying civilians under army laws in the wake of May 9 protests, and the PTI chief is one of the petitioners. Now, Lieutenant Colonel (retd) Inam-ul-Rehim, making the former premier a respondent, filed the petition under Article 184(3) of the Constitution and requested the apex court to overturn the trial, conviction and sentences awarded to the said civilians.
Pakistan has rebuked Israel for carrying out raids and airstrikes in Jenin city of occupied Palestinian territory which left at least 10 people dead and dozens injured. “Pakistan condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the raids and airstrikes carried out by the Israeli occupation forces since yesterday in Jenin in the occupied Palestinian territory of the West Bank, which killed 10 Palestinians and injured some 50 others,” the Foreign Office said in a statement on Tuesday. The FO said the latest episode of violence against the occupied people of Palestine by the “occupying power must end immediately”. Islamabad called upon the international community to play its role “in bringing these brutal and illegal actions by the Israeli occupation forces to a halt and to ensure the protection of the human rights of the Palestinian people”.
The federal government has announced holding nationwide protests on Friday (July 7) against the recent incident of desecration of the Holy Quran in Sweden.The despicable act of the public burning of a copy of the holy book in Stockholm on the occasion of Eid ul Adha sparked worldwide protests and outrage. A man set a copy of the sacred book ablaze outside a mosque in the Swedish capital. Presiding over a meeting in Islamabad, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Tuesday decided to stage countrywide protests over the incident and appealed to all the political parties and the nation to partake in the rallies. “Speaking with one voice, the whole nation will give a message to the evil minds,” said the premier. He maintained that the nation will observe the “Youm-e-Taqaddus Quran” on Friday.
PTI leader Asad Qaiser has claimed that the police attempted to arrest him from the Peshawar High Court (PHC) despite being “granted bail” in all cases registered against him following May 9 mayhem. “Police failed to arrest me,” he said in a statement on Tuesday. Qaiser, who served as National Assembly speaker during the previous PTI-led government, said party leader Wazir Abdul Karim Khan had been taken into custody. The close aide of PTI Chairman Imran Khan said he has been appearing before the court for hearings in all “illegal” cases.
GB Chief Court Tuesday disqualified Chief Minister Khalid Khursheed a leader of the embattled Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) — for holding a fake degree under Articles 62 and 63 of the Constitution of Pakistan. A three-member larger bench — Justice Malik Inayat Ur Rehman, Justice Jauhar Ali, and Justice Mushtaq Muhammad — announced the verdict on the plea filed by Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) GB Assembly member Ghulam Shahzad Agha. The former CM's lawyer, Asadullah Khan, argued that the articles do not apply to GB, but the complainant's counsel informed the court that they applied to the region — based on which the court issued its judgment. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) had in May withdrawn the equivalence letter for the LLB degree issued to the chief minister after learning that it was "fake".
In an exciting development, a Japanese firm has proposed to start a ferry service from Karachi’s Do Dorya to Port Qasim and developing other water sports facilities in Sindh. The proposal came under discussion in a meeting between Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah and Yamaha Japan Senior General Manager for Central Asia and Middle East Yoshiyuki ITO. They discussed developing water sports facilities at different barrages and lakes in the province, including launching a ferry service from Do Darya to Port Qasim, according to a statement issued by the CM House.
Prime Minister of pakistan Shehbaz Sharif Tuesday advised India against using terrorism for diplomatic point scoring, saying terror activities remain a serious obstacle to peace in the region. The prime minister's statement came during his address to the 23rd meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State (CHS), being virtually hosted by India under the chair of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The premier, during the address, noted that SCO members have a shared interest in ensuring peace and stability in the region, a precondition for economic development anywhere in the world.PM Shehbaz noted that there could be no justification for killing innocent people, regardless of the cause or pretext. 
PIA flight bound for Canada had to turn back to Pakistan midway due to a hydraulic dysfunction during the trip, The News reported. The flight — PK-797 — was flying over Russia when a technical problem in the aircraft's hydraulic system issue was discovered. Originally scheduled to depart from Lahore for Toronto on the night between Sunday and Monday, the flight was forced to return to Allama Iqbal International Airport after being recalled from Russian airspace. Flight tracking data revealed that the Boeing 777-240(LR) aircraft took off from Lahore at 4:30am on Monday and landed at the same airport at 1:30pm. According to the PIA spokesman, due to the delay in the repair of the plane, the passengers of this flight would be sent to Toronto through an alternative flight.
NDMA on Sunday issued a fresh warning alert for Pakistan regarding the possibility of floods in River Ravi after India released approximately 185,000 cusecs of water from the Ujh Barrage. Citing the Pakistan Commissioner for Indus Waters (PCIW), the NDMA stated: "Considering previous record approx 65,000 cusecs is expected to reach within [the] next 20-24 hours." This, the NDMA said, may lead to low floods in the floodplain areas of Punjab's Jassar region. Taking to its official Twitter handle, the disaster management authority wrote: "As per PCIW, India has released approx 185,000 cusecs water from Ujh Barrage (River Ravi).
yet another member of the journalist fraternity, Syed Muhammad Askari, a senior Daily Jang reporter at Daily Jang, was picked up from Karachi, The News reported Sunday. According to eyewitness accounts from Askari's friend present at the time of the incident, Askari was taken into custody by police and personnel in plain clothes. A police mobile and a white vehicle intercepted Askari's car near the Qayyumabad KPT Interchange on Korangi Road on Saturday night as the two were returning from a wedding, the eye witness claimed. He further stated that police and plain-clothed unknown people detained the two, even though Askari has introduced himself to them and told them that he was a reporter.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Sunday slammed Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan for launching a "vile, sinister and malicious" campaign against Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Asim Munir. Taking to Twitter, the premier condemned the PTI chief, saying he has been badly exposed. "Imran Khan continues to engage in a vile, sinister and malicious campaign against COAS General Syed Asim Munir. His trick of using proxies to threaten the Army Chief of an assassination attempt has been badly exposed," he wrote on the microblogging site. 
Karachi Mayor Murtaza Wahab has proposed reviving British-era wells to protect the metropolis from urban flooding. During his visit to the Burns Garden on Sunday, Wahab pointed out that if these wells were revived, the groundwater body would increase, and urban flooding could be prevented. He further said that the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) is constructing wells in different parks in the city. "We have reactivated two old wells in the Burns Garden."He added that the wells were revived with the help of an expert who recently came from Ukraine and was working with the KMC's parks department.
PTI has been found guilty by the Westminster Magistrates' Court of criminal damage to the Pakistan High Commission after launching a violent attack on the premises — nine days after the arrest of Imran Khan on May 9 in Islamabad. Geo News has learned that Aamir Wasim Chaudhary, 51, of Woodlands Lane, Leytonstone, East London, was charged with one count of criminal damage at the building. The charge and conviction follow Chaudhary's attack on Pakistan High Commission in Knightsbridge at around 22:11 hrs on May 18. Scotland Yard sources have confirmed that it received an emergency call from the Pakistani authorities on the night of May 18 when Chaudhary appeared in front of the commission in London, raised slogans for "Haqeeqi Azadi" and against the government of Pakistan and national institutions, and breached the premises of the mission.
EU Ambassador to Pakistan Dr Riina Kionka has said that the organisation comprising 27 European countries Is paying a lot of attention to the "crackdown on the PTI and it's supporters in the aftermath of May 9" in the country. The EU ambassador's comment came in a video statement regarding the extension of Pakistan’s GSP (Generalised Scheme of Preferences) Plus status. Ambassador Dr Kionka detailed Pakistan’s current GSP Plus status, saying that "the proposed extension of the current regulation for GSP Plus in effect means no change for Pakistan at the moment, and the country enjoys the same trade preferences and access to the European market [as before]."
PTI led government for harming the multi-billion dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Federal Minister for Planning and Development Ahsan Iqbal on Saturday revealed that China had warned the then establishment against any “new experiment” ahead of the 2018 general elections. Speaking during Geo News programme Jirga, the PML-N leader said, “China — in a diplomatic manner — had tried to convey [a message] to the then establishment to avoid any new experiment as it would derail CPEC”. The then establishment, however, assured Beijing that whoever would come into power will not create obstacles in the path of the mega infrastructure and connectivity project.
Pakistan and Switzerland inked MoU on disaster management to foster cooperation between the two countries to harness technology and expertise in future to jointly tackle any natural calamity. Addressing the MoU signing ceremony in Nathiagali on Saturday, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif said that they looked forward for the Swiss cooperation in terms of getting an advanced warning system and other gadgets to secure Pakistan as much as possible from natural disasters.He reiterated that Pakistan was facing the impacts of global climate change, despite the fact that the country had very little carbon footprints.
At 7 people were killed and around 13 others injured when an LPG cylinder installed in a passenger van with around 20 onboard exploded in Sargodha district, police said on Saturday. The van, a white Toyota Hiace, with a substandard cylinder filled with LPG gas for fuel, was en route to Kot Momin when the unfortunate incident took place.The police said that the explosion took place due to a gas leak from the LPG cylinder. The vehicle caught fire right after the cylinder's explosion. Eyewitness Kot Momin Police Station Head Constable Mohammad Shahid, who was heading to work, said that he was sitting on the front seat of the van when the cylinder exploded around 8:30 am.
Thundershowers will take place in Karachi during the next 24 hours, the PMD forecast Saturday. Several areas in the city witnessed drizzle in the early hours of the day. In its daily forecast report, the department added that thundershowers would take place today and tomorrow (June 9) as well. Humidity in the air is at 79%, the PMD added. In light of the rains, Mayor Karachi Barrister Murtaza Wahab Friday imposed a rain emergency in the Karachi Metropolitan Corporation. All the relevant departments of KMC will remain open 24 hours, including on holidays. Meanwhile, the heads of all departments related to rain emergencies have been instructed to be present in the offices along with their staff and to keep the necessary machinery and other necessary things ready.
At least 10 Tunisian migrants were missing and one died after their boat sank off Tunisia as they tried to cross the Mediterranean to Italy, a judicial official said on Sunday. Tunisia is facing an unprecedented migration crisis and has replaced Libya as a main departure point for people fleeing poverty and conflict in Africa and the Middle East in the hope of a better life in Europe. The latest tragedy raises the number of dead and missing off the North African country’s coasts to more than 600 in the first half of 2023,
At least six people lost their lives while another 10 were injured on Sunday after a three-storey private hotel located on the Grand Trunk Road in Punjab’s Jhelum collapsed due to a gas cylinder explosion, according to officials.Rescue 1122 district emergency in-charge Rana Mohammad Saeed told Dawn.com that the death toll reached seven after one more body was retrieved by the end of the rescue operation while 10 injured were under treatment.Jhelum District Police Officer (DPO) Nasir Mehmood Bajwa told Dawn.com that the explosion did not occur in the building but in the cylinder shop — which was located in the basement of the building. “Proceedings have been initiated for registration of a case,” he added.A statement from Jhelum Deputy Commissioner (DC) Samiullah Farooq said that there was no evidence of anyone else under the hotel’s wreckage. He added that the rescue operation was continuing while a search operation would begin in the morning.
All six people aboard a small jet died when the aircraft crashed and burned in a field near an airport near Los Angeles on Saturday, local and federal authorities said. The aircraft, a Cessna C550 business jet, was travelling from Las Vegas and crashed near French Valley Airport in Riverside County, about 137 kilometres south of Los Angeles, at around 4:15am, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement. The passengers and pilot who died were all adults, Elliott Simpson, an aviation investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board, said at a news briefing. The privately-owned plane crashed 500 feet from the runway at the small airport, after attempting an instrument landing as a marine layer weather phenomenon settled on the area, Simpson said.
Syed Mohammed Askari, a senior reporter for Daily Jang, has gone missing in Karachi after he was picked up — allegedly by police and men in plain clothes — in the early hours of Sunday, his wife said. A complaint submitted by Shazia Askari — the journalist’s wife — stated that her husband was returning from an event late at night when he was “abducted” from near the Qayyumabad Interchange. Providing further details, she said the men were clad in police and civil clothes. “They took Askari without providing any reason,” the application, a copy of which is available with Dawn.com added. Shazi further requested the police for her husband’s immediate release. A first information report of the incident is yet to be registered.
Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Sunday strongly condemned what he said was a social media campaign regarding an assassination attempt on Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Asim Munir, and expressed the resolve to “crush all conspiracies” against Pakistan and state institutions. According to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the premier said similar thinking was done for the events of May 9 — when military installations were attacked during violent protests in the country following the arrest of PTI chief Imran Khan. “A clear message to the planners, facilitators and handlers of May 9: All conspiracies against Pakistan and its institutions will be crushed,” PM Shehbaz said. He said that “vile” media campaign against the COAS and army was the result of planning by an “evil mind”. He said that “conspiratorial minds and elements” were once again working against political and economic stability in the country.
Twitter seems to have bloc­ked access to the government of Pakistan’s official account in GB for helding kashmir and chan­ged the region’s location to parts of India, it has emerged. In addition, when users turn on the location feature on the app, tweets sent from the region are marked as originating from India-held Kashmir. The issue came to light after several Twitter users in GB complained they were unable to access the government’s official account from the region. When users tried to access the account, a message was displayed stating the “account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand”.
Hundreds of migrants on board the boat that sank off southern Greece last month weren't provided with life jackets and food, even after they paid the crew $100, said one of the Pakistani survivors who has returned to the country. Usman Siddique a policeman , who was among the 12 Pakis­tanis who survived the tra­gedy of Greece, arrived at his hometown in Kaleki village on Gujrat’s outskirts on Friday, family sources confirmed. Since his return, he has met with several people whose loved ones perished in the accident. Mr Siddique, 28, was a constable in the Gujrat police but took a year’s leave and decided to go to Italy along with his four friends, some being cops themselves. They left Gujrat for Libya in May. At his residence, Mr Siddique told reporters that the crew collected money for the provision of life jackets before boarding the boat.
The trial of former prime minister Imran Khan in the Tosh­akhana reference is likely to re-commence next week after a sessions court in Islamabad ruled that the case filed by the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) against the PTI cha­irman was maintainable. Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADSJ) Hum­­ayun Dilawar, while ruling that the reference was maintainable, revi­ved the stalled proceedings and summoned the witne­sses for testimony on July 12. Mr Khan’s counsel Barrister Gohar Ali Khan, however, requested the court to adjourn the proceeding till July 10 as the lead counsel Khawaja Haris Ahmed was not available because of family engagements. It was the third consecutive hearing in which the lead counsel did not appear before the court. When the court resumed proceeding on Saturday, Barrister Gohar was also not in attendance. After a brief adjournment, the court again convened.
 Pakistan and Switzer­land on Saturday signed a memorandum of understanding(mou) aimed at preventing natural disasters and improving response to them in Pakistan. The MoU was signed by Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis and National Disaster Management Authority Chairman Lt Gen Inam Haider Malik at a programme held in Nathiagali in the presence of Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif. The MoU envisaged bilateral cooperation in disaster risk management including preparedness, response and recovery aimed at reducing the adverse impact on people and national economy. Welcoming the Swiss foreign minister and his delegation, the premier reiterated the high importance Pakistan attaches to its relations with Switzerland.
The European Com­m­i­s­sion has proposed extending Pakistan’s GSP+ status — which is set to expire at the end of this year — for another four years as a contingency measure.The EU has decided to introduce fresh legislation to continue the scheme for another 10 years, but there seems to be a deadlock between the EU Council, which wants to link the GSP+ scheme with migration, and the EU Parliament, which is not ready to do so. “The EU Parliament strongly believes that trade shouldn't be linked with the migration issue,” MEP Heidi Hautala said during an interaction with visiting Pakistani journalists. As a temporary measure, it has been proposed that the current scheme should be extended for four years. The proposal will now be put to vote in the EU Parliament. According to a European official, the scheme will definitely be extended, but its time period will be decided by the legislature. However, one EU official said that over the next decade, the GSP+ scheme would be very stringent and some countries may not even qualify for it, under the new legislation. It was repeatedly mentioned that conditions will be the same for all those countries trying to avail the GSP+ status and there will be no ‘pick and choose’.
At 7 people were killed and around 13 others injured when an LPG cylinder installed in a passenger van with around 20 onboard exploded in Sargodha district, police said on Saturday. The van, a white Toyota Hiace, with a substandard cylinder filled with LPG gas for fuel, was en route to Kot Momin when the unfortunate incident took place.The police said that the explosion took place due to a gas leak from the LPG cylinder. The vehicle caught fire right after the cylinder's explosion. Eyewitness Kot Momin Police Station Head Constable Mohammad Shahid, who was heading to work, said that he was sitting on the front seat of the van when the cylinder exploded around 8:30am.
Residents of Walai Kandao here area on Saturday held a demonstration against the police department for ‘grabbing’ their lands for construction of the police lines in the region. The residents blocked the Timergara-Munda Road for some time and chanted slogans against the police department. Speaking on the occasion, resident Ahmad Zeb Yousafzai alleged about 200 kanals of land owned by people had been used for construction of the police lines in Walai Kandao. He said the landowners had filed a petition in the Supreme Court, which had decided the case in their favour. He said despite the court decision, construction work on the building had not stopped. He demanded of the government to implement the court order.
Authorities have claimed a significant decline in people’s resistance to polio vaccination in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. In a report, the Emergency Operations Centre Khyber Pakhtunkhwa said the number of families refusing the administration of polio drops to their children had come down by around 35 per cent. It said the development was observed during the June vaccination campaign, which also reported a 25 per cent decline in the number of children who missed vaccination in the last few drives. The centre said all such children were given vaccine jabs. The country recorded 20 polio cases last year, all from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. However, the number came down to one this year. The only child diagnosed with polio was reported in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
A 13 years old teenage girl was raped allegedly by her neighbour in the limits of Taxila police station on Saturday. The victim’s father reported to the police that the suspect took his daughter into his house where he sexually assaulted her. After a medical examination, the police confirmed the assault, registered a case against the suspect and sent him behind bars. Separately, two siblings were injured in Wanni village in the limits of Taxila police station. Sources said Ahmar was cleaning his gun when it accidentally went off, hitting his hand as well as his sister. Both siblings were rushed to Tehsil Headquarters Hospital where their condition was stated to be out of danger. In another incident, police arrested a proclaimed offender wanted in a murder and attempted murder case. Police sources said the suspect, identified as Zubair, along with his accomplices shot Basit dead and injured another man identified as Atif. The suspect went underground after these incidents and was later declared proclaimed offender (PO) by a local court.
a group of young Kashmiri boys and their elders swore an oath in the capital of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) to carry on the ongoing struggle for the right to self-determination of the oppressed Kashmiri nation. The event was organised by Pasban-e-Hurriyat Jammu Kashmir (PHJK), an organisation of the post-1989 migrants from across the Line of Control, to mark the seventh martyrdom anniversary of young Kashmir commander Burhan Wani as “Resistance Day.” Mr Wani, described as the poster boy of the latest phase of anti-India armed struggle, was shot by the occupation forces in Kokernag area in the southern part of occupied Kashmir on this day in 2016. The youngsters in t-shirts, who PHJK chairman Uzair Ahmed Ghazali claimed were 313, had lined up on the main thoroughfare close to a roundabout named after Mr Wani.
An anti-terrorism court on Saturday granted interim pre-arrest bail to former federal information minister Fawad Chaudhry in two cases relating to the May 9 riots. Mr Chaudhry, who quit the PTI after the violent protests of May 9, appeared before the court along with his counsel. The former minister sought bail in two cases of torching the PML-N party office in Model Town and other public property during the protests of May 9 by the PTI workers following the arrest of former prime minister Imran Khan by the NAB. The court allowed the bail to Chaudhry till Aug 8 and directed him to furnish surety bonds of Rs 100,000 in each case.
An anti-terrorism court on Saturday acquitted 23 workers of the Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) in a case of attacking police teams, ransacking public and private property and obstructing the state’s operations during the 2021 protests against France. Judge Abher Gul Khan announced the verdict declaring that the prosecution had failed to establish its charges against the accused persons in the trial.The defence lawyers argued that the police produced no evidence against the accused persons to prove their involvement in any illegal activity or violence. They alleged the police arrested the accused from their homes and registered FIRs against them.Chuhng police had registered a case against the accused persons, including Talib Beg, Ibrar and Amjad.
Two officials of Pakistan Customs have gone missing in the metropolis, it emerged on Saturday. SSP-South Syed Asad Raza told Dawn that the police got information about disappearance of the two officials — Tariq Mehmood and Yawar Abbas, both posted at the anti-smuggling unit of the customs. He said that the family of Mr Abbas had approached the Defence police station and filed an application in this regard. However, he said that an FIR had not been registered so far. “We are looking into this case,” said the SSP. A police source said it may not be a case of kidnapping for ransom.Meanwhile, Musarrat Husain, sister of Mr Abbas, stated in her application that her brother Yawar was an inspector at Pakistan Customs and lived in the Defence area.
A BBC presenter has been accused of paying a minor for explicitly sexual photographs. The alleged victim’s mother told The Sun that the money, amounting to over £35,000 was used to fund drug addiction, destroyed her child’s life. Broadcaster Rylan Clark tweeted on Saturday to clarify that he was not the presenter in question. Neither the individual nor the teenager has been identified.
Hundreds of protesters took to the streets of Seoul  during a visit to South Korea  aimed at calming fears over Japan’s plan to discharge treated radioactive water from its tsunami-hit Fukushima plant. Rafael Grossi, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), arrived in the capital on Friday to meet the foreign minister and a top nuclear safety official during his three-day visit after wrapping up a trip to Japan. Foreign Minister Park Jin told Grossi Seoul’s consistent position was that contaminated water should be verified for safety and treated in a manner that complies with international law and standards, the ministry said in a statement.
German police on Saturday fired tear gas and used water cannon to quell unrest at a controversial Eritrean music festival in the town of Giessen and 22 officers were injured. “Twenty-two police were injured, mainly in incidents of stone throwing,” regional police said on Twitter. About a thousand police were deployed in this town of 80,000 residents north of Frankfurt after last year’s edition of the festival degenerated into violence. Between 2,000 and 3,000 people had been expected to attend the festival, due to run till Sunday. Police did not give details of any arrests.
Shericka Jackson threw down the gauntlet with a personal best and world-leading 10.65 seconds, the fifth-fastest ever, as she retained her women’s 100m title at the Jamaican championships on Friday to secure her spot at the World Athletics Championship in Budapest this summer. Jackson, who won the silver medal at last year’s World Championships in Oregon, is tied with American Marion Jones for fifth on the all-time list and eclipsed the previous fastest time of the year, the 10.71 set American Sha’Carrie Richardson at the US championships on Thursday.
Global agricultural and food production are projected to continue to increase over the next 10 years, but at a slower pace of growth than the previous decade due to demographic trends, says a report jointly released on Thursday by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The report titled, ‘ECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2023-2032’, being the key global reference for medium-term prospects for agricultural commodity markets, says while uncertainty has risen due to geopolitical tensions, adverse climate trends, animal and plant diseases and increased price volatility for key agricultural inputs, global production of crops, livestock products and fish are projected to grow at an average annual rate of 1.1 per cent during the period, half the pace recorded in the decade ending in 2015.
Pakistan’s exports to the Middle East dipped 12.28 per cent year-on-year to $2.127 billion in the first 11 months of FY23, mainly driven by a substantial decline in exports to the United Arab Emirates. The exports to Saudi Arabia increased while other countries of the region dipped, according to data compiled by the State Bank of Pakistan. Nearly 62pc of total exports to the region go to the UAE market alone. However, it suffered a decline of 20.46pc to $1.341bn in 11MFY23 from $2.425bn over the corresponding months last year (FY22).
At least two cargo containers loaded with pulses and other goods arrived at Torkham late on Friday from Russia after oil under the Transport International Route (TIR) agreement. Officials said that the consignment, the first of its type, was part of the TIR bilateral trade treaty signed with Russia in March this year during the Moscow visit of Federal Minister for Communication Asad Mehmood. They said that with the signing of the agreement and the arrival of the first consignment, the two countries were now formally linked through bilateral trade. “The two vehicles were allowed to proceed to their destination in Pakistan after clearance from customs authorities at Torkham,” they said.
Unknown attackers gunned down a tribal elder and injured two others in the city on Saturday, according to the police. The police said armed men opened fire on Lala Zahir Khan Dummar when he was passing through the Double Road area. He died on the spot while his two friends were injured. The police shifted the body and injured to the Civil Hospital. The deceased sustained multiple bullet injuries, which caused his death. The motive behind the killing could not be immediately determined.
Washington and Beijing should communicate “directly” on concerns about specific economic practices, US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on Saturday, urging greater cooperation between the world’s two biggest economies despite fraught ties. Yellen is on a four-day trip to Beijing as the United States seeks to cool tensions and stress areas of collaboration between the two countries. In a meeting on Saturday with Vice Premier He Lifeng, she pointed to record bilateral trade last year as proof of just how intertwined they are.
George Soros is not banned from any of these countries. "George Soros has not received any official communications from any government that would limit his ability to travel as an American citizen to any of those countries," Soros spokesperson Michael Vachon told PolitiFact in an email.  However, his charities were banned in one country and faced resistance elsewhere. In November 2015, two branches of Soros’ charity network — the Open Society Foundations and the Open Society Institute Assistance Foundation — were banned by Russia, which said the organizations’ activities represented a "threat to the foundations of the constitutional system of the Russian Federation and the security of the state."
The reports by Indian media organisations that the IAF aircraft carrying the relief materials to Turkey was forced to take a detour after Pakistan denied permission to use its airspace, is not true. The IAF and the NDRF has confirmed that the flight route did not involve flying over Pakistan airspace.the condition of anonymity that there was no truth in the claim that Pakistan denied airspace to IAF aircraft carrying relief materials. Further, our source also confirmed that no such permission was sought in the first place as that route was not taken.
Viral video claiming to show a scuffle between Pakistan & Afghanistan cricket fans in a stadium is being shared out of context.the viral video of brawl between Pakistan and Afghanistan cricket fans is around three years old and not related to the recent Asia Cup match. The incident took place during the ICC World Cup 2019 match between the countries in Leeds. 
The video claiming to show Aamir Liaquat Hussain, Pakistan MP dancing is that of choreographer Shoaib Shakoor. Several users shared the video of a man dancing at what appears to be a wedding function, claiming to show Pakistan MP Aamir Liaquat Hussain.Delhi based journalist Aman Malik was among those who shared the video claiming to show a ‘Pakistan MP dancing’. The tweet has received over 500 retweets and 4,000 likes.News agency ANI and Marathi publication Lokmat Times were also among those who declared the man dancing to be Aamir Liaquat Hussain Pakistan MP.
The claim  shared on Facebook by the accounts Newsbank about Russia gifting Pakistan one million COVID vaccines and the WHO calling this a human trial phase 3 is false. We found the initial claim to be published on a satirical website, The Fauxy. What we know is this claim began circulating on Whatsapp and Facebook after President Vladimir Putin announced that Russia had become the first country worldwide to register a COVID-19 vaccine within two months of human testing, earlier this month. Russia’s coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, was developed by the Russian Defense Ministry and Gamaleya Research Institute. 
The viral video, showing ‘Pakistan banana hai’ slogans at a door-to-door campaign rally of the SP candidate from Kanpur’s Bithoor is false. We also found another video statement by the Assistant Returning Officer of Bithoor- appointed by the State election commission, on the same Facebook page, where the official clarified that they did not find any such slogans having been raised in the rally. The same video was also tweeted by other news publications.  Newschecker also obtained the complaint registered by Shukla with the police department over the video.
Indian media and politicians amplify false claim that Pakistani Parliament  chanted in favour of Narendra Modi Linking with ukraine .A television news segment in India reporting that slogans favoring Prime Minister Narendra Modi were chanted in Pakistan has been shared extensively on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. The claim was widely amplified by prominent Indian politicians and other media outlets. However, the claim is false; the lawmakers were in fact chanting calls for a vote during a debate in Pakistan’s national assembly. A one-minute and 45-seconds news clip was published on Facebook here on October 29, 2020. The post’s caption says: “Modi Modi slogans in Pakistan’s parliament.”
An image of a padlocked grave in India’s Hyderabad shared with a false narrative to show parents locking graves of their daughters in Pakistan so that their corpses are not raped.Geolocation tools, and conversations with locals, confirmed that the photograph is from a graveyard in India’s Hyderabad. The necrophilia narrative around the viral image is incorrect.Users sharing the image alleged that it shows a grave from Pakistan, while adding that the parents of the deceased girl padlocked her grave to prevent the corpse from being raped. Multiple news outlets, including WION, ABP, OpIndia Hindi and news agency ANI, also made the claim, raising concerns over necrophilia in Pakistan. Newschecker found the claim to be untrue.
The viral video claiming to show that Imran Khan’s message was displayed on Burj Khalifa has been digitally created as Khan’s address was not displayed on the building in reality.As political turmoil in Pakistan culminated with the dissolution of the national assembly and imminent polls within 90 days, a video claiming to show a message by Pakistan PM Imran Khan displayed on Burj Khalifa has gone viral on social media.The video is doing the rounds on Facebook as well. Newschecker Urdu team however managed to spot a tweet by Numaira before her account was deleted, clarifying that Imran Khan’s video on Burj Khalifa is edited and not real. We were able to retrieve the archive link of the same.
The video of a man being beaten and taken away by Pakistan army in Karachi does not show a kidnapping on cam as alleged in the viral social media post, but shows security personnel apprehending an alleged drug smuggler.The video was also shared widely by social media users in Pakistan, who criticised the treatment of the alleged drug dealer, including Dr PTI leader Shahbaz Gill. “It would have been better to have dealt with him according to the law instead of beating him up in public,” he tweeted.the video is from Karachi Road, and the person being thrashed by security personnel is actually a professional criminal wanted for selling drugs near the Mayo Shah Graveyard. The reports further  revealed that the accused was trying to run away from the Rangers during the checks. 
The claim is misleading to imply that PM Khan was praising the current Indian government in his speech, whereas in reality, he called it “totalitarian and racist.” The original video has been manipulated and shared without proper context. The video clip in the claim has been edited from this speech and shared without proper context. Continuing where the edited clip cut, the original video shows PM Khan calling India’s current Modi-led government a “totalitarian, racist, anti-Muslim, anti-Islam, and anti-Pakistan.” On watching the entire 28-minute video one can see PM Khan speaking against PM Modi, and not in his favour. The edited clip can be seen from the 4-minute 30-second timestamp in the live stream. 
Viral image claiming to show a screenshot of a BBC Hindi tweet reporting  have donated money to help Pakistan amid massive flooding is fabricated and fThe “tweet”, attributed to BBC Hindi, carries a Hindi text which translates to “Bollywood comes forward to help flood-hit Pakistan. Brahmastra producer Karan Johar donated 5 crore, while Alia Bhatt and Ranbir Kapoor donated 1-1 crore…. Said will donate 51 crore if the film becomes a hit. Following this, we looked up the official website of BBC Hindi but did not find any such report indicating that Karan Johar and the Brahmastra cast have donated any sum to help Pakistan flood victims.  Neither did we find the viral tweet on the Twitter feed of BBC Hindi’s official handle.
Viral post claiming to show Pakistani citizens demolishing a mosque and “selling its iron and bricks for their food” is false. The video actually shows people vandalising a worship place of a minority community in Karachi.Displaying snippets from the viral clip, the report stated, “Pakistani Islamists vandalised a worship place belonging to the Ahmadi minority in Karachi. The Express Tribune reported that the “miscreants” vandalised the minarets of the worship place. Pakistani law prohibits Ahmadis from calling their worship places in the country as mosques. The place of worship for the minority community, Ahmadiyya Hall, was built in the 1950s. Policemen at the scene failed to stop the vandalism and no FIR has been registered so far”. The spokesman of the Ahmadi community Amir Mehmood condemned the incident and lamented that the police failed to control the attackers.
The viral image of the placard which reads “We condom Imran Khan for threatening female judge” is altered and fake.Amid controversy over the remarks made by PTI chief Imran Khan against a female judge over the arrest of Shahbaz Gill (chief of staff to Imran Khan at PTI), protests erupted across Pakistan condemning the comments made by him at a rally. Social media users are sharing an image of women Muslim League (N) assembly members holding up a placard which spelt ‘condemn’ as ‘condom’. Newschecker found the image of the placard to be edited. 
According to the investigation conducted by Newschecker, a 2021 video of a young boy being beaten up for allegations of stealing, is being passed off as the boy getting beaten for raising ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogans.
A viral video shoes the Forced Conversion Of Hindus to Islam by giving electric shocks in Peshawar pakistan is fake.A disturbing video showing visuals of a faith healer electrocuting children and adults, who are seen writhing in pain, is circulating with false claims that Hindu minorities are forcibly being converted to Islam through electrocution in Pakistan's Peshawar. BOOM found that the viral video from 2020 shows an act of exorcism performed by a Muslim faith healer; the fake faith healer, named Muhammad Ullah was later arrested by the Peshawar Police.The video was also shared on Facebook with the same claim. 
the video circulating on social media linking to Nuh violence is not from Haryana, but a video taken on July 29 during the Muharram Procession in Dhuliyan, West Bengal.After analysing the keyframes of the viral video through Google reverse image search, the entire video was found on the Facebook page of Shaikh Aptaj Bharatiya from West Bengal. One of his comments on this video mentioned that it is him who recorded the video.This video was recorded on July 29 in an area called Dhuliyan in Murshidabad district of West Bengal. Multiple other videos from the same occasion can be viewed from his other posts.And after examining the streets in the video through Google Maps, a statue that appears to be carrying a blue globe can be seen in the background of the viral video. At the end of our search, we came to know that this Biswa Bangla symbol has been erected in many parts of West Bengal.
It is found that a special train arranged by the railways for the pilgrims to visit Halkatta Shareef in Karnataka’s Wadi from Hyderabad is shared to falsely claim that it is a train to West Bengal.A train decorated with a green dome that looks like a Mosque dome, peacocks, and birds is circulated widely on Twitter with the claim that it is a train from Telangana and Hyderabad to West Bengal. The posts further mention that India has to be made an Islamic nation.When reverse searching the keyframes of the viral video and further searching with relevant keywords we found that the train has nothing to do with West Bengal. It is a special train arranged from Hyderabad to Karnataka’s Wadi to visit Halkatta Shareef.
In the viral video, we see a child lying inside an ice box. The child in the foam box containing ice is seen wearing a yellow shirt and blue trousers. One woman takes the ice cubes out of the box one by one and there are some people standing around her, looking more like relatives. We can also hear them crying aloud. This video is circulated with the claims that the child is packed and waiting to move.we conclude that those are two separate videos that are combined to form a single video fooled internet users. In this very old video, the boy died of drowning and his parents worried of the summer heat brought him back in a styrofoam ice box to their hometown for burial purposes. This purported video is circulated with false claims that chinese organ harvesting caught red handed 
The claim that apparently humans called in Moon with wires from a landline phone in 1969, but can't even contact a submarine in 2023 is false . US President Richard Nixon did not directly call Apollo 11 astronauts on the Moon from a landline as his call was routed through Mission Control.   Experts told AAP FactCheck that communicating with submersibles underwater is far more difficult than communicating with spacecraft. The Titan submersible wasn’t contactable because it had imploded.The claim is accurate in parts but information has also been presented incorrectly, out of context or omitted. 
The Indigenous voice would not have that power and not rename all the cities of Australia, which is generally held by state and territory governments.the proposed body wouldn't have the power to rename locations, which is generally a state or territory government responsibility. Dual naming systems, allowing places to have non-Indigenous and Indigenous names already exist across the country.This post includes a map of the continent featuring Indigenous place names shown on the SBS news weather report and claims that the voice will rename Australia. “If the yes “vote” is successful in the “voice” referendum every city, town and street sign is set to be renamed,” another post warns.Dr Hobbs says it would be redundant to give it that power as dual naming systems allow Indigenous place names to be recorded alongside non-Indigenous names already in NSW, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, Northern Territory and the ACT.
The claim human internal organs contain more melanin than the skin is false. Experts told AAP Factcheck the heart contains no melanin. The skin has more melanin than internal organs but can only be isolated using complex laboratory techniques. Artificial melanin is inexpensive and widely available. The suggestion that human organs are being harvested for melanin is, therefore, baseless and implausible.This claim is inaccurate.The price of synthetic melanin starts at about $290 per gram, or 4.5 times the price of gold, though AAP FactCheck found chemical suppliers selling it for much higher prices 
Electrolysers are not designed to assess water quality but can discolour water samples through oxidation.Experts told AAP FactCheck that electrolysers can’t be used to assess water quality, which must be tested in specialised labs by trained professionals. This Facebook post (screenshot here), which has been viewed more than 1.4 million times, shows a video of a man using six electrolysers to “test” a range of bottled water products, tap water and distilled water. He places the electrodes in the water samples side by side and then switches on the power point they're plugged into.The bottled water products turn various shades of yellow to dark brown and black. The man says the colours indicate the water quality.
Carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere for up to thousands of years so the claim made is false. A climate change sceptic has claimed carbon dioxide has an insignificant effect on the climate because the greenhouse gas has an atmospheric lifetime of less than a decade.  This is false. Experts told AAP FactCheck that while many complex processes affect the atmospheric residence time of carbon dioxide, emissions can stay in the air for thousands of years. This Facebook post (archived here) makes the claim among a list of points challenging the consensus on human-caused global warming.Dr Pushker A. Kharecha, a climate scientist at Columbia University, said there are many different physical and biological processes on land and in the ocean that affect global atmospheric CO2 levels.
It is being falsely  claimed that Australians will be asked if the country should become a republic at this year’s referendum or not however this is false..The upcoming referendum’s only question will ask if Indigenous people should be recognised as the first peoples of Australia by establishing an Indigenous voice so the claim if false. Only one question will be put to voters at this year’s referendum: whether Indigenous people should be recognised in the constitution by establishing an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voice.
list of 21 natural feature sites are off-limits for all Australians while some remain open to the public.Among a list of 21 sites, most are off-limits to all Australians regardless of race. Some even remain open.The majority of the 21 sites named are closed to both aboriginal and non-aboriginal  people, contrary to the claim. It is also wrong to state they have all been closed at the request of Indigenous people. Many of the sites are restricted for other reasons such as safety and environmental protection.Severe damage from floods has closed Lawn Hill (Boodjamulla) National Park while Mount Cooroy on the Sunshine Coast is on private property and is only open to the public once a year for the annual Cooroy Mountain Spring Festival.
The Queensland customers were referred to debt collection agencies by energy companies, not the federal Labor government.It is true that around 12,000 electricity customers in Queensland were referred to debt collectors in the third quarter of 2022-23, according to official data from Australia’s energy market regulator. But the debt referrals were made by energy companies, not the government.  The claim was made in a July 5 Facebook video by Pat Mesiti, a former church pastor and the author of several wealth creation books. “Just this week, the Labor party sent out 12,000 debt collectors letters,” Mr Mesiti said (video mark 19sec).Mr Mesiti appears to be referring to the federal government and at one point suggests Energy Minister Chris Bowen is responsible for the letters.
The claim that access will be denied to sporting venues such as the MCG, SCG and Allianz Stadium if the proposed Indigenous voice is enshrined in the constitution is false. If this year’s referendum is successful, the voice to parliament will be an advisory body with no power to make decisions or veto legislation.The claim was made in a Facebook post (archived here) earlier this year. The origin of the sporting facilities claim is unclear. However, previous checks have looked at claims relating to native title misinformation such as this debunk.The origin of the sporting facilities claim is unclear. However, previous checks have looked at claims relating to native title misinformation such as this debunk.
The posts in which Facebook users are being asked to help find a missing five-year-old girl  is a scam and not real. The images used in the post relate to a 2021 story about two missing dogs. Once the posts have a certain amount of interaction, they are changed to display a real estate advert with suspicious links. In a Facebook community group members are being urged to share a photo of a "girl” in a bid to reunite her with her family. But the post is a scam. The pictured girl is not missing. The intention of those behind the post is to prompt people to share it, before it is then altered to display a real estate advertisement with suspicious links.
The claim is based on a proposed anti-conversion therapy bill  in california that was discontinued in 2018 so, the bill would not have banned Bibles.The claims are based on old reports that misrepresented a proposed consumer protection law that was introduced in 2018 before being withdrawn. Bibles have not been banned in California and were never at risk of being banned.The full video can be viewed on YouTube, which is clearly dated August 4, 2018.The report is about what the presenter calls “a new California pro-LGBTQ bill that would ban the sale or distribution of materials related to, quote, conversion therapy”. 
State laws imposed various movement restrictions on Aboriginal people but there was no rule about where they could live.
BOOM found that the viral video is from a gas cylinder explosion in Moscow when an Isuzu truck carrying cylinders and a bus collided causing a massive explosion not two electric vehicles. An old video showing a massive explosion involving two vehicles in Moscow is circulating with false claims that it shows two electric vehicles colliding and causing a huge blast because of the batteries present in them. BOOM found that this is an old video from Moscow when an Isuzu truck and a bus, which did not operate on electricity, collided with each other. The Isuzu truck was carrying more than a hundred gas cylinders during the collision which further led to multiple explosions.The same video was also received on our WhatsApp tipline number and helpline number +91 77009 06588 for verification with a similar caption.
A montage of several videos showing the Beirut Port explosion of 2020 has surfaced with false claims that it shows Russian missiles hitting British cargo ships, triggering an explosion in Ukraine. BOOM found that the viral video shows multiple visuals captured during a port explosion that happened on August 4, 2020, in the city of Beirut, Lebanon and claimed more than 200 lives, triggering a nationwide emergency and shock.In the viral video, multiple explosions of a similar looking skyrise can be seen near the sea. Some footages can be seen as captured from a jet ski while some have been captured from nearby skyrise buildings. The video is circulating in the backdrop of continued geopolitical tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
The video is from Myanmar and shows a woman being executed by the military in February 2022.video from Myanmar showing a woman's beheading is viral online with the false claim that the incident took place in Manipur where Kuki militants dressed up as Meiteis and killed her. BOOM found that the video is from Myanmar and the incident took place on February 19, 2022. The video shows a man using a knife repeatedly to kill the woman lying down on the ground.
The claim about 72% of women in Pakistan smoke is not true .The Pakistan Tobacco Board said that the figure was from a 2005 survey and PTB has no involvement in it. On 23 July 2023, Geo News and The News published reports on the number of women smokers in Pakistan.He elaborated that the figure 72% meant that number of people who smoke 72% of them are women. It does not mean that 72% women of Pakistan are smokers. The PTB has no direct involvement in the survey mentioned, he said; he was also unable to provide any such survey to Soch Fact Check at the time of publication.
 It is factually incorrect that women these days reach menopause by age 30. Two gynaecologists that Soch Fact Check spoke to, as well as a number of peer-reviewed research papers and studies, prove that women in Pakistan reach menopause around the age of 47-55. Furthermore, “a small percentage of women” or about 1% experience premature menopause, with a 2017 study stating “2% of the women experiencing premature menopause and 7.6% early menopause”.
Trump’s possible sentence if convicted does not include the death penalty, the Justice Department and a legal expert confirmed. One of the four charges — conspiracy against rights — can be eligible for the it , but only if the violation results in death or other aggravating factors. As the indictment does not hold Trump responsible for any deaths, the former president is not facing capital punishment.As Trump pleaded not guilty on all four charges in federal court on Thursday, some on social media spread falsehoods about the maximum sentence he could receive if convicted.
Law enforcement officials confirm that the man who attacked Pelosi’s husband in their San Francisco home late last year was neither a prostitute nor an acquaintance of the family.Many are sharing a meme that ticks off a number of recent incidents as supposed evidence.“Cocaine was found at Biden’s house. A dead body was found at Obama’s house,” the meme reads.But the meme, at best, plays fast and loose with what actually transpired in many of the incidents involving top Democrats. And in the case of the claim that a prostitute was found at Pelosi’s home, that’s just plain false.
The two California companies that have been cleared by the Agriculture Department to sell lab-grown chicken in the U.S  told The Associated Press that each of their products are made using cells taken from chickens, not humans. This fact is also reflected in documents both companies submitted to the Food and Drug Administration as part of the agency’s safety evaluation process. But this is completely false, the companies and government records confirm. Lab-grown meat — also called “cell-cultivated” or “cultured” meat — is created in steel tanks, using cells that come from a living animal, a fertilized egg or a special bank of stored cells. When ready, the meat is then formed into shapes such as cutlets, sausages or nuggets.
An Obama spokesperson said the Democrat was wearing golfer’s tape on his left hand, as photos have shown him doing many times over the years. Golfing experts confirmed the former president is wearing the tape properly and that golfers routinely use it to avoid blisters and don't have any role in the  death of his personal chef last month. Images of Obama golfing on Martha’s Vineyard have sparked a fresh round of conspiracies around the drowning of Tafari Campbell in the waters by the former president’s summer home on the Massachusetts island.The pictures, which were originally published by The Daily Mail on Friday, show Obama as he hit the links at the Vineyard Golf Club that day, clad in a polo shirt with white shorts, hat and sneakers.
Camera setups used to capture nuclear weapons testing in the U.S. were specially designed to withstand intense effects from the bombs and  can survive the blasts seen in archival test footage.. For example, cameras were encased in steel and lead, and positioned on towers rooted into the ground with concrete, as outlined in declassified military reports. Additionally, the existence of nuclear weapons is well documented, most famously by the atomic bombs the U.S. dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. A popular Instagram post included a clip of a July 19 episode of “The Joe Rogan Experience” featuring billionaire investor Marc Andreessen, who outlined a “conspiracy theory” that the U.S. faked nuclear weapons testing.
The federal government sued Trump for allegedly discriminating against Black apartment seekers in the 1970s. Black pastors also accused the New York businessman of stirring racial animus during the “Central Park Five” rape case in the 1980s. Native American groups criticized him for making derogatory remarks about tribes seeking to build casinos in the 1990s. Trump was also a leading voice of the “birther” conspiracy that baselessly claimed former President Barack Obama was from Africa and not an American citizen.The clip features a woman discussing one of Moderna’s patents related to its mRNA-based coronavirus vaccine.
Video of giant Barbie walking in Dubai was computer generated, not a hologram.Video and still images of an alleged 3D ad showing a skyscraper-sized Barbie emerging from her box in Dubai have confused many on social media.In the midst of Barbie Mania, false posts in both English and Spanish on Facebook, TikTok and X, previously known as Twitter, state that this  three-dimensional advertisement was placed near the Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in the world, to promote the film.
No, COVID vaccines don't contain nanotechnology that can be programmed via 5G wireless networks.A video that is being widely shared on social media claims pharmaceutical companies secretly embedded nanotechnology into COVID-19 immunizations that can somehow connect people to 5G is fake and false.
A fake video of two humans playing table tennis at the recent European Championships was digitally altered and misleading to replace one competitor with a computer-generated robot. It was created with a platform called Wonder Studio, which uses artificial intelligence to add and animate CGI characters into existing footage, the company confirmed to The Associated Press.The footage appears to show a blue-and-white droid in a spirited back-and-forth with its human opponent, before the robot nonchalantly taps the ball over the net in a winning shot.
Obama's’ chef wasn't found dead on the anniversary of Jeffrey Epstein’s suicide.Campbell’s body was recovered from a pond on Martha’s Vineyard on July 24 after he went under water while paddleboarding a day earlier. A headline about Epstein in posts circulating online refers to the disgraced financier being found in his jail cell with injuries on July 23, 2019, but Epstein killed himself weeks later. He was pronounced dead on Aug. 10, 2019.
Experts warn that borax cleaning powder isn't safe to ingest, as social media posts claim.there no evidence to support purported health benefits touted around the cleaning product, health experts say ingesting borax can be harmful or deadly to humans if swallowed.experts stress that ingesting significant amounts of the household chemical can be harmful, if not deadly.“If a person is ingesting borax for a health issue, they should be prepared for bigger health issues than the one they are trying to improve,” warns Liz Weinandy, a registered dietitian at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center.
Massachusetts State Police reiterated Monday that Tafari Campbell did not sustain any head wounds and was found in nearly 8 feet of water, not in less than 4 feet of water, when he drowned last Sunday. In addition, the 911 call came in shortly after he fell off his paddleboard, not hours later, and Obama’s physician didn't do the autopsy, the state medical examiner’s office did, police said. Meanwhile, no evidence has been presented to support the claim that the former White House sous chef was working on a book about the Obamas. The notion originated from a social media account known to spread misinformation.
 The video clip being misrepresented on social media with false claims George H. W. Bush Bush falling ill at a 1992 dinner with Japan’s prime minister.A conspiracy theory video circulating on social media is falsely purporting to show video of the 41st president dying — nearly three decades before his actual death.The footage in fact dates to Jan. 8, 1992, and shows an episode in which Bush fell ill, collapsed and vomited at a state dinner in Tokyo with Japan’s then-prime minister, Kiichi Miyazawa.
Major U.S chain-food restaurants are not selling lab-grown meat.Lab-grown meat — cultivated from cells — has been cooking for a while, but the U.S. government only recently gave its approval to sell it in this country. Supporters say growing meat from cells, rather than slaughtering animals, is beneficial not only for animals but also for the environment. The lab-grown product has sparked numerous social media claims, including one that said several fast-food chains in the U.S. have long been serving it to unsuspecting customers.In the U.S., only two companies have been granted permission to sell lab-grown meat and neither sells its products to any of the chains mentioned in the Instagram video.
This video doesn't show Attorney General Merrick Garland as he "cries like a kid" , He is not in the video at all.A video purports to show Attorney General Merrick Garland breaking down in tears after a conflict. But anyone who clicks "play" expecting the confrontation will find themselves disappointed.This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. The video is a clip from a June 13 hearing led by House Republicans. The hearing — which Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., described as a "field hearing" — focused on the investigations and prosecutions linked to the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol. 
New York state’s population declined last year for the first time in a decade. State Republican Chairman Edward F. Cox blames the drop on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. Cuomo's economic policies make it hard for employers to add jobs, especially in upstate New York, so residents are leaving the state for better employment opportunities elsewhere, he said. "New york have the biggest outmigration of citizens of any state," Cox said.Thirty other states also lost population to other states last year, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
Census data shows that New York’s population declined by 1.58% between July 2020 and July 2021, which is the latest population estimate available and is the largest percentage loss of any state during that period. "New York leads the U.S. in population loss, because residents aren't feeling safe on the streets and subways. they feel suffocated by heavy-handed government action, it doesn't make sense economically to remain here, and opportunity for a better life is presenting itself elsewhere," Zeldin tweeted.
Nine other states have already legalized recreational marijuana before new york  state . Other states have also taken steps toward legalization that New York state has not. New Jersey’s governor has called on the legislature to legalize the drug, while voters in Michigan are expected to decide on legalization later this year.Cuomo has been opposed to legalizing recreational marijuana. He has called it a "gateway drug." But he supports decriminalizing marijuana -- ending criminal penalties for possessing and using small amounts of the drug. Selling it would still carry a penalty.
Census data show that when counting only the people who move to other states, the number reached 8,808 per week on average in 2018. That figure falls to 3,915 when including the number of people moving into New York from other states. So according to this the misleading Tweet "Tens of thousands" of people leave New York every week went wrong.However, the reasons for migration are difficult to pin down. Earlier this year, PolitiFact Florida fact-checked why New Yorkers are drawn to Florida and did not find enough evidence to show to what extent taxes play a role. Some research suggests that family, the weather and jobs are prime motivators.
Cox said "We have the highest debt per capita" is true as the New York state has had the highest state and local government debt per capita since at least 2011.Cox recently claimed that unemployment was up in every county in the state outside New York City. The latest data proves Cox’s claim.We rated that claim Mostly True. State Sen. John DeFrancisco, a GOP candidate for governor, claimed that one-third of New York state’s population is on Medicaid. That’s True.But there’s also evidence the state’s economy has improved since Cuomo took office. The state has more private sector jobs than ever before, and unemployment has dropped statewide.
Outdated information from the Uk government has been taken out of context and falsely claims that pregnant women should not receive the COVID-19 vaccine. This information is based on a December 2020 report. At the time, there was limited research available on the vaccine’s effects during and after pregnancy. The U.K. government currently strongly recommends women who are pregnant or breastfeeding get vaccinated against COVID-19.The U.K. government’s current guidance also states that there is no evidence COVID-19 vaccines have any effect on fertility or a person’s chances of becoming pregnant.
a news report did not ‘reveal’ that doctors gave Queen Elizabeth a banned COVID-19 treatment. An image of a drug containing ivermectin was included in a news report about Queen Elizabeth II’s COVID-19 diagnosis “as a result of human error,” according to the Australian network that broadcast the news report. The network issued a statement saying it did not intend to suggest a doctor had endorsed the ivermectin drug or that the queen was taking ivermectin. The antiparasitic ivermectin is not approved in Australia to treat COVID-19, nor in the United Kingdom, where the queen lives. It’s also not approved in the U.S. as a COVID-19 treatment.
With no evidence that COVID-19 vaccines cause cancer, we rate the Facebook post False.Fact-checkers have repeatedly debunked the claim that COVID-19 vaccines cause cancer.  A recent post that repeated the claim cited comments from a doctor who is facing unprofessional conduct charges for allegedly making false and misleading public statements about the COVID-19 pandemic and vaccines.The post was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
Young and healthy people get benefits and low risk from COVID-19 vaccine, despite claims to contrary.Younger people face less of a health threat from COVID-19, but vaccines reduce their chances of developing serious disease from the virus.  Heart inflammation linked to coronavirus vaccination is rare among young people, and occurs more commonly among those infected by COVID-19.The findings underscored the importance of vaccination "to reduce the public health impact of COVID-19 and its associated complications," the study said.
The data it cited does not show the likelihood of surviving COVID-19 for over 99%. The post’s claim is based on data used to model pandemic scenarios. Experts say a person cannot determine their own chances at surviving COVID-19 by looking at national statistics, because the data doesn’t take into account the person’s own risks and COVID-19 deaths are believed to be undercounted.  Survival rate data is not yet available from the CDC."The vaccines are doing exactly what we're asking them to do when it comes to keeping you out of the hospital, out of serious disease, and certainly preventing your death," Fauci said.
According to the CDC, in the U.S. the unvaccinated are 11 times more likely to die from COVID-19. There is no clear evidence that COVID-19 vaccines have caused any deaths in the U.S . and the death rate is not proportional to dose.The post was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.Research shows the unvaccinated are far more likely to die from COVID-19, and that there is no clear evidence that COVID-19 vaccines have caused any deaths in the U.S.
 drinking water isn’t testing positive for COVID-19 in rapid tests. COVID-19 has not been detected in drinking water, health experts say. The Abbott rapid test shown in a video was not designed to be used with water or other liquids. A doctor who shared the video was recently punished by health authorities in Ontario for spreading misinformation about the pandemic.A video shows a man unwrapping a rapid COVID-19 test, applying a few drops of tap water and waiting as a portion of the device slowly turns pink.The video has been making the rounds on social media since at least June of 2021 and has been debunked by fact checkers at AFP.
Skin cancer did not emerge in the last 60 years as it dates to at least 1804. The video, which shows scenes of people outside in the sun, included audio of an unidentified woman describing what she says is a Baylor University study about exposing animals to the sun’s ultraviolet rays. Scientists have recognized skin cancers for more than 200 years, since at least 1804, according to the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology.Baylor University told Reuters in 2022 that it has no record of the study Day refers to. 
On July 19, a tornado damaged a Pfizer facility in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. The pharmaceutical company said this facility did not manufacture or full of COVID-19 vaccines so the tornado didn't destroy the warehouse  .Multiple Instagram posts shared July 19 falsely  claimed the Pfizer warehouse destroyed by a tornado was "full of Covid vaccines."More than a dozen people were injured. Pfizer confirmed all 3,200 workers at this facility were able to evacuate.
There is no evidence to support the claim that the recent deaths of four doctors  were targeted for their ideas about COVID-19 misinformation  spread The  2015 deaths of three other doctors were suspicious. Buttar said in a March interview that he had been hospitalized in January, and information shows he had health issues dating to 2016. The 2015 deaths involved natural causes, a suicide and a murder in which the victim’s husband was convicted.The recent death of a doctor who promoted conspiracy theories about COVID-19 vaccines has led some social media users to attempt to tie his death to three deaths eight years ago of other doctors who also practice alternative medicine.
a Bill Gates-funded project did not cause the recent five  US malaria cases. Over the years, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has given money to companies to help combat malaria spread in areas where the disease is most prevalent, such as Africa and Central America. However, the foundation has not funded any U.S. mosquito release programs.The foundation has given money to Oxitec to combat malaria in Africa and Central America. And although Oxitec does research in the U.S., it is unrelated to malaria. The company is using genetically modified Aedes aegypti mosquitoes — not the type that carry malaria — to control the mosquito population and reduce the spread of diseases.
The COVID-19 vaccines shots don't contain ‘monkey virus DNA’.There is no evidence to support this claim. Monkey DNA and the SV40 virus are also not listed among the ingredients for the COVID-19 vaccines that federal regulators approved. Pfizer also told PolitiFact that it did not use African green monkey DNA in its vaccines. The Epoch Times article cited a study, which has not been peer-reviewed, that found part of a DNA sequence called an SV40 promoter in two expired vials of the Pfizer vaccine. But the SV40 promoter is not the same as the SV40 virus and is not cause for concern, molecular biology experts told PolitiFact.
Cattle in video died from poisoning in Italy, not COVID-19 vaccine in U.S.This video shows cattle killed after eating poisonous sorghum plants in Italy in 2022. They didn't die because of COVID-19 vaccines.We found the footage had been posted online Aug. 8, 2022, by Corriere della Sera, a daily newspaper in Milan. An English translation of the headline says: "50 cows die in a few minutes poisoned by sorghum." Agence France-Presse reported that drought caused the acute prussic acid poisoning on a farm in Sommariva del Bosco, near Turin in northwest Italy. 
Bird flu is not a pandemic, and Bill Gates didn't say children are being targeted. An avian influenza outbreak has killed tens of millions of wild birds and poultry worldwide since 2020; the virus has also been found in some mammals. In March, after an outbreak among poultry at a farm in England, two people tested positive for the bird flu. Neither had any symptoms and have since tested negative.  The U.K. Health Security Agency said the risk of bird flu in humans is low, and there’s no evidence of person-to-person transmission. It is monitoring the virus. Microsoft Corp. co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates in October 2022 took part in a simulation designed to help leaders prepare for future outbreaks. In it, a fictional virus disproportionately affected children.
A European Union Times headline shared on Instagram misrepresented a commitment made by 13 countries, including the United States, to reduce methane emissions from the agricultural sector. These countries did not agree to abolish farming as the US and 12 other countries did not agree to ‘abolish farming’ to mitigate climate change. Methane is a major driver of climate change, and 40% of the world’s human-derived methane emissions come from the agricultural sector. Global organizations have proposed reducing methane emissions, but these do not include getting rid of farming.
The White House did not issue ‘official’ warning about imminent attack to critical infrastructure.The claim cited a report by The New York Times about the discovery and tracking of Chinese malware implanted in networks controlling power grids, communications systems and water supplies servicing military bases. The National Security Council has said it is working to defend the U.S. from any potential disruptions. ​A man in a viral video is urging people to get a generator, fill their gas and water tanks, and stockpile food.We found no official announcement from the White House on Friday telling Americans to prepare for a potential, imminent attack to the country’s critical infrastructure. 
This claim misrepresented a 2017 Washington Post report about hundreds of thousands of "fugitives from justice" being purged from the background check database for gun purchases and the report did not specify that the people removed were pedophiles.In late 2016, while Obama was still president, the Justice Department agreed to use ATF’s definition, The Washington Post reported, citing anonymous law enforcement sources. This decision narrowed the prohibition of gun purchases only to fugitives who cross state lines.The FBI and ATF previously had different definitions of who was considered a fugitive from justice. 
Social media post misleadingly presents old news as a recent attempt to assassinate Donald Trump. Former President Donald Trump is again running for the nation’s highest office, but there’s no evidence he survived a recent assassination attempt, despite a social media post suggesting otherwise.In the footage, a man identifying himself as Gary Franchi with the Next News Network said he was providing "an update on the Donald Trump assassination attempt."But the video is not "breaking news." It was originally posted Nov. 6, 2016, by the Next News Network, a conservative YouTube channel.
A former intelligence officer said, under oath, the U.S. had a longstanding program to retrieve and reverse engineer UAP aircraft that crashed, and that "nonhuman biologics" were also recovered. The U.S. government did not say that they have  UFOs and nonhuman alien bodies.Grusch’s remarks garnered much of the media attention following the hearing. He told legislators that he was told there has been a "multi-decade UAP crash retrieval and reverse engineering program" but was denied access to the program. Graves said UAP sightings are routine and grossly underreported by military and commercial airline pilots and called for more government transparency about them.
President Joe Biden did not leave in the middle of his June 29 interview with MSNBC’s "Deadline: White House" anchor Nicolle Wallace. A 10-second clip of his exit was taken out of context; this happened at the end of the 20-minute interview.Biden’s exit occurs at the end of his 20-minute interview with Wallace, which aired June 29. The two discussed the Supreme Court’s rulings on affirmative action and abortion, foreign policy and bipartisanship. The full interview on MSNBC shows Wallace signaling the end of the segment about 17 minutes into the video, and then Biden walking off the set a couple of minutes later after thanking and shaking hands with Wallace.
NPL Construction Co. said that a claim that two of workers were poisoned by fentanyl-laced water they received from a passenger in a car is inaccurate. Officials in two Chicago suburbs said there have been no reports that this incident happened, and a Drug Enforcement Administration official in Chicago called the claims "urban legends" in a tweet. A similar claim emerged in San Diego and was shared by a gas and electric company there, but a company spokesperson said it was later determined that the incident could not be confirmed.
Many who attended the festival described the flying insects as gnats, not mosquitoes from a Helicopter. An expert told us that mosquitoes do not swarm in the way seen in the video. Those mosquitoes "are not released by helicopter or in any other sudden mass release. They are released gradually over a period of days after adding water to a small box," said Lester, who added that the mosquitoes could not be released in the quantity seen in the Instagram video.Field testing so far has taken place only in Florida, Lester said; there are no programs in Maryland. 
 Situations that result in a fetal death in the third trimester are exceedingly rare, reproductive health experts said, and usually involve emergencies such as fatal anomalies or life-threatening complications affecting the mother.  In life-threatening cases, an expecting mother may be induced into labor. If the newborn has a very short life-expectancy, a family may opt for palliative care, which aims to provide comfort to an infant near death. These cases typically involve medical conditions that result in a baby surviving minutes or days after delivery, experts said. Aborting an infant after post-birth is infanticide and is illegal in all 50 states.
We found no evidence that billionaire philanthropist George Soros is going bankrupt, as a recent social media post claims.A recent Facebook post claims that billionaire philanthropist George Soros is in the red, but it provides no evidence that this is true. According to Forbes, Soros was worth $6.7 billion as of July 20. We found no news reports that he’s heading into bankruptcy — or that Musk leaked this information. In a statement, Open Society Foundations said its new operating model is meant to maximize its grantmaking dollars, The Associated Press reported. The news outlet didn’t hint that neither the nonprofit nor Soros is on the verge of bankruptcy.
Recent Facebook post  about refunding $500  from the Walmart company is a scam and no evidence was found.it follows a pattern we've seen in other online scams. In the past year, for example, we've debunked claims that Walmart customers could be entitled to a $500 refund, that the store must give some women a $500 grocery credit as part of a discrimination settlement, that the government is giving every household a $500 Walmart shopping credit to help with inflation, and that the company’s management is helping families with rising prices by selling $500 grocery cards for $2. Walmart spokespeople have previously told PolitiFact that these offers are fake. The company also advises customers to avoid buying, selling or checking a gift card balance "on online marketplaces outside of Walmart.com."
Facebook post about walmart selling bicycles for 6.95$  is a sanm  and no evidence was found in such a scheme exists to dodge recycling fees. Rather, this looks like a scam. After clicking "apply now" and navigating through several pages, we were redirected to a "prize winner confirmation" website that prompted us to enter credit card information to cover $9.97 shipping and handling. No mention of a $6.95 bike. The post itself was published on a Facebook account called "Bikes Liquidation," which appears to have no connection to Walmart. The account was created July 17, the same day this post appeared online. 
 President Joe Biden hosted Israeli President Isaac Herzog on July 18 at the White House, and Biden didn’t fall asleep during his televised meeting with  Israel’s president.  It’s worth mentioning because some social media users are claiming otherwise.This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. He stumbles over his words at one point, but he doesn’t fall asleep. 
We found no evidence that @ilikegroomingchildren is or was a real Twitter account, nor that Musk responded to someone tweeting that the KKK "never did anything wrong to Black people." Rather, this seems like an effort to pan Musk for responding to other users in a similar manner. The formatting and type in the image don't match those employed on the real Twitter platform.For example, he said "looking into it" in response to complaints that a 2024 presidential election denier had been wrongly blocked from Twitter and from conservative accounts that have shared misinformation. 
Fabricated and misleading photo appears to show Donald Trump, Jeffrey Epstein with girls.An Instagram post sharing the image was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.Photos of Trump and Epstein do exist and have been widely published by news outlets. But we couldn't find this image, or two others in the post appearing to show Trump with several blond girls, among any credible sources. 
Former FBI agent Ted Gunderson wasn't murdered and He died of cancer, according to family. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. The Southern Poverty Law Center said that "he became fixated on the idea that children are regularly subjected to Satanic ritual abuse" and that he became a "leading conspiracy-monger," making videos "alleging an invisible cabal called the Illuminati had plans to run the world."
Trump is correct that Florida has highest home insurance rate in the United States.The industry-funded Insurance Information Institute found that Floridians pay the highest average home insurance premium at $6,000 a year for 2023. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has signed many bills that aim to reduce litigation and fraud, a driver of high insurance premiums. Industry experts hope the new laws will lead to lower premiums, but that will take time. Hurricane-prone Florida will continue to face high costs.Gov. Ron DeSantis is striving to make the U.S. like Florida, but there’s one costly way Americans may not want to mimic the Sunshine State: the cost of homeowners insurance
Florida government has not taken steps to ban COVID-19 vaccines and brand them as bioweapons.Florida state officials have not moved to ban COVID-19 vaccines and brand them as biological weapons. Some county Republican parties in Florida have called for such a ban.The mRNA vaccines were tested in humans. They do not alter DNA. More than 672 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered in the United States and serious health effects linked to them are rare, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The World Economic Forum didn’t ban natural conception in favor of lab-grown babies. We found no evidence the World Economic Forum is trying to ban natural conception and mandate lab-grown babies. The organization has also said these claims are false."The World Economic Forum never called for banning natural conception and lab grown babies," a spokesperson told Reuters. "The forum also never funded such research."
Humans are not in danger from the fungus, scientists say. The fungus is used in Chinese medicine and can be found in herbal supplements. Human bodies are too warm to be infected with the fungus so it is not the next government project. While the interview depicted in the Facebook video may be alarming to viewers who aren't familiar with the HBO show, it’s only science fiction. All good science fiction has some basis in reality. "The Last of Us," the critically acclaimed HBO series that follows survivors in a post-apocalyptic world, is no exception.
There is no widespread push for health care professionals to use the term "bonus hole" instead of "vagina." Jo’s Cervical Cancer Trust, a United Kingdom-based charity, listed the term "bonus hole" on its website as an alternative word to vagina that some transgender and nonbinary patients may prefer. The glossary encourages health care professionals to talk with patients about the language and terminology they are comfortable using.Social media users are claiming there’s a widespread push for health care professionals to replace reproductive anatomy terminology with gender-neutral language. But this misconstrues what industry guidance says about treating transgender and nonbinary patients.
This video shows Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman getting hit by a water balloon, not former Vice President Mike Pence.Instagram posts sharing the miscaptioned video were flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. This video was taken in Stewart Manor, on Long Island, New York. And it doesn't show Pence but Bruce Blakeman, county executive for Nassau County, which is on Long Island. CBS News reported that thousands of people lined the parade route "armed with American flags and coolers filled with thousands of water balloons." 
Morgan Romano was crowned Miss USA in January, but claims that she’s boycotting the next Miss Universe pageant originated on a self-described satire website. Claims Miss USA boycotting Miss Universe over transgender contestant originated on a fake news site and is fake. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. no news reports or other credible sources suggesting the real Miss USA — Romano — has said she won't compete in Miss Universe or that she criticized Kolle’s win. 
Don't bank on claims that President Joe Biden is transforming the U.S. dollar into a cryptocurrency as the viral claims are fake. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. Biden signed Executive Order 14067 in March 2022. It directed the Federal Reserve to weigh the risks of using digital currency and research the possibility of using a central bank digital currency. Biden also did not transform the dollar into a cryptocurrency. 
Former President Donald Trump was indicted on dozens of charges this spring but a recent Instagram post suggesting that he was arrested in July is wrong. Former President Donald Trump wasn't arrested in July 5. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. He surrendered in June in a classified documents case after he was indicted on federal charges in Miami, and he made his first court appearance in a different case in New York in April in connection with alleged hush money payments to a former adult film star. 
President Joe Biden was waving and pointing at people to the left of him onstage, not "nobody," as a recent social media video claims.President Joe Biden recently delivered a speech at the NATO summit in Vilnius, Lithuania, pledging support to Ukraine and greeting the crowd gathered to listen. But a clip of that event, spreading on social media, is being mischaracterized.The video clip comes from a CBS News report showing the end of Biden’s remarks. As the camera pulls away, Biden turns to his left, waves and points as the audience in front of the lectern applauds. Biden appears to be acknowledging the people standing to his left.He’s not pointing and waving at "nobody."
French President Emmanuel Macron did not ban social media of events during protests. France erupted in violent protests following the police shot and killed a 17-year-old driver  during a traffic stop.A fake government press release announced there were temporary restrictions on internet access in some regions. No limitations on internet or social media access have been instituted, though French President Emmanuel Macron has criticized the role these platforms have played in the violence. That same day, the French Ministry of the Interior released a tweet disputing the document’s claims. "Attention to #FakeNews," it read, saying no such decision had been made. Access to social media remains undisturbed in France.claim that "French President Macron has declared a total ban on social media reporting of events in France" False.
Police didn't say that thousands of people witnessed a demonic portal above the White House. No such reports were made, according to the Arlington County Police Department.A recent misleading  Facebook posts ,  with the caption falsely claims : "Police- Thousands witnessed demonic portal opening above White House | BIDEN BREAKING NEWS - July 11, 2023."The nearly 15-minute video takes a while to get to the claim in the caption, spending time first to describe a fake news report about former first lady Melania Trump hiring an exorcist to cleanse the White House "of Obama demons," as if it really happened. Eventually, the video’s host refers to a December blog post about conservative political consultant Roger Stone claiming that a demonic portal had opened above the White House "around the time the Bidens moved in." 
Saharan dust clouds regularly make their way from North Africa across the Atlantic Ocean to Florida, especially during the summer months. The clouds — masses of dry, dusty air kicked up from the Sahara desert and carried away by winds — are a naturally occurring phenomenon. Bill Gates has not proposed blocking out the sun with the help of sand storm . He has donated to Harvard University researchers who are hoping to test spraying aerosols into the stratosphere, a solar geoengineering technology to combat climate change. That test was later called off.
Fourth of July video featuring Hunter Biden wasn't taken same day cocaine discovered at White House. This video was taken two days after cocaine was discovered at the White House. After cocaine was discovered at the White House, some of the Biden administration’s detractors have tried to connect the drug to the president’s son, Hunter Biden. It features a clip of a C-SPAN video showing Hunter Biden walking behind first lady Jill Biden and President Joe Biden as Hunter Biden’s hands move around his face. White powder found inside the White House turned out to be cocaine, the Washington Post reported, but it was discovered on July 2. 
 The use of implants to replace missing teeth is so common that by 2026, 23% of U.S. adults will have them, according to dental medicine researchers.A webpage linked from a Facebook post claimed to offer dental implants at no cost.But all six links on the page shared on Facebook led not to ways to obtain free implants, but to commercial dental clinics and other websites. The websites of the clinics selling dental implants offered free consultations, as many businesses do. But we found no offers of grants or free implants.A webpage claiming to offer grants for free dental implants provides no access to any such grants and is fake.
Conservative commentators and social media posts are falsely claiming part of President Joe Biden’s July 4 celebration at the White House was a setup because phones in the crowd were "turned off."People weren't holding up turned-off cellphones at a White House event for filming Joe Biden as the late afternoon sun’s brightness made the phone screens appear dim.At the July 4 celebration, right before the clip shown on TrueNews begins, Biden addressed a crowd of military families on the White House’s South Lawn.Some of the phone screens in the crowd look dark, but that’s because the late afternoon sun was shining on the audience, making the light from their phones appear dim in comparison.
 This is an urban myth, according to news reports.  In Switzerland, local authorities set quiet hours and apartments often have long lists of house rules. But these regulations and rules do not prevent people from flushing toilets late at night.It’s a good rule of thumb for renters to avoid upsetting their neighbors — but a social media post suggests that Swiss law takes that advice to the extreme, and into the bathroom. People in Switzerland  can flush toilets after 10 p.m and it's not and illegal act for avoiding disturbance There is a tiny element of truth to the tall tale: In Switzerland, apartment buildings often have long lists of house rules that tenants must follow, The Local Switzerland reported in 2019. And local authorities set "rest periods" or quiet hours, which are often overnight. But these local regulations and rules do not prevent people from flushing toilets late at night.
A recent video of Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk speaking at a company shareholders meeting has been dubbed with fake audio for urging everyone in the UK to take advantage of great opportunity in a Facebook post that promises a supposed investment opportunity.  This video is bogus and echoes similar altered clips wrongly connecting Musk to a cryptocurrency scheme.  What really happened at the May shareholder meeting: Musk said Tesla wasn’t immune to the global economy and warned of a difficult year ahead. 
Camera setups used to capture the footage of nuclear explosions  testing were designed to withstand intense effects from the bombs so the viral about the nukes are not fake. For example, cameras were encased in steel and lead, and positioned on towers rooted into the ground with concrete, as outlined in declassified military reports. Additionally, the existence of nuclear weapons is well documented, most famously by the atomic bombs the U.S. dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. A popular Instagram post included a clip of a July 19 episode of “The Joe Rogan Experience” featuring billionaire investor Marc Andreessen, who outlined a “conspiracy theory” that the U.S. faked nuclear weapons testing.
Statements made at a City Council meeting by a man claiming to be Disney executive Alan Bergman were intended to be fake . The man in the video is Mark Dice, a conservative YouTuber, who often speaks at local council meetings in the public comment portion to satirically mock perceived liberal causes.Disney has not announced any plans to open pediatric transgender clinics for children.Disney, which has been publicly supportive of LGBTQ+ employees and guests, has not announced any advocacy of or plans for a themed transgender clinic for children in press releases or in news reports.
A video of President Joe Biden with a mother and her infant is spreading on social media with false and misleading  claims that Biden leaned in and sniffed the child. In the 13-second clip, Biden appeared to be talking to the child, who remained offscreen. "Did you take all these pictures?" Biden is heard saying. "You’re good." Biden leaned in and said, "Let me whisper a secret," followed by three loud sniffing sounds before he stood back and said, "Don’t tell mommy what I told you."In the comments, the woman wrote that Biden was pretending to say something to the baby and that the people spreading the manipulated version "don’t have better things to do."
Recirculated video recycles false claim that California moved to outlaw the Bible and this will spread evil deeds in society.A 2018 video is being recirculated to misleadingly suggest that California’s legislature recently moved to outlaw the Bible.  A 2018 California bill, which did not become law, would not have banned the Bible. The post misleadingly suggests that legislative action in California is new, but the bill mentioned came before the state’s legislature in April 2018. That year, the California Assembly approved a bill that would have strictly limited programs that aim to change a person’s sexual orientation. The legislation, which did not become law, would have banned any "advertising, offering to engage in, or engaging in sexual orientation change efforts with an individual". 
A criminal corporate corruption case almost derailed Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's 2019 reelection. Now, a Facebook post claims the head of state is under federal investigation for how he handled the matter. The Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is not under investigation for obstruction of justice by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.The post claims the supposed investigation is linked to possible obstruction of justice by Trudeau and several cabinet members for their role in the SNC-Lavalin affair.The post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. 
There is no evidence Elon Musk tweeted about downloading of threads apps. Hours after the launch of Threads, Meta’s app to rival Twitter, dubious information already made its way to thousands of users’ feeds.The replies suggested Threads users believed this tweet was real. But it’s not. This image appears to be fabricated.Musk did tweet about Meta on the day of Threads’ launch, but he did not use that language. In a reply to a July 5 tweet by Internal Tech Emails, Musk said, "It is infinitely preferable to be attacked by strangers on Twitter, than indulge in the false happiness of hide-the-pain Instagram." the claim that Musk tweeted that he downloaded Threads and said it "sucks" False
a Bill Gates-funded project did not cause the recent five  US malaria cases. Over the years, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has given money to companies to help combat malaria spread in areas where the disease is most prevalent, such as Africa and Central America. However, the foundation has not funded any U.S. mosquito release programs.The foundation has given money to Oxitec to combat malaria in Africa and Central America. And although Oxitec does research in the U.S., it is unrelated to malaria. The company is using genetically modified Aedes aegypti mosquitoes — not the type that carry malaria — to control the mosquito population and reduce the spread of diseases.
The claim that more than "200 dogs showed up and lined up around the block" for a man’s 100th birthday celebration is  Good Enough to Be True.Dog lover Robert Moore recently celebrated his 100th birthday in San Jose, California. To mark the occasion, his family invited neighbors to line up with their dogs outside a family home. More than 200 canine friends came.  This was the case for Robert Moore, a retired university dean who lives in San Jose, California, and, according to his family, adores dogs and petting them. So when Moore’s 100th birthday was approaching June 14, online posts said his family decided to organize a dog parade. But the canine congregation that showed up exceeded anyone’s expectations.
A video misleadingly claimed that France, roiled by protests over the fatal police shooting of a teen, announced an end to internet access in the country.France did not announce internet shutdown amid riots, as social media posts claim.Two French governmental agencies issued statements describing as fake a purported news release saying the government had decided to restrict internet access. There is no evidence that France announced a stoppage of internet services amid riots over the fatal police shooting of a teen.The Facebook post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. 
Video went viral and  comes from The Associated Press coverage of a Feb. 9 U.S. nuclear missile test.No evidence that test of US nuclear missile was done to threaten Russia . The Air Force described it as routine.  News reports on the testing did not mention Russia.An awkwardly worded TikTok post claimed that President Joe Biden launched nuclear "test" bombs to threaten Russia.TikTok identified the video as part of its efforts to counter inauthentic, misleading or false content.A close look at the video in the post led us to more details: This involved a Feb 9 U.S. Air Force test of an unarmed intercontinental ballistic missile. In news reports covering the test, there was no mention of Russia.
Four days after the Titan submersible went missing June 18 en route to the wreckage of the Titanic, the U.S. Coast Guard said that all of its five passengers were presumed dead. Debris from the Titan, including the submersible tail cone, was discovered about 1,600 feet from the Titanic, and Coast Guard Rear Adm. John Mauger said it was "consistent with a catastrophic implosion of the vessel".Baseless and fake claims went viral in instagram posts that Titan passengers faked their own deaths start to spread online that the incident never happened. But it’s hardly surprising that multiple wealthy people were on the Titan. Passengers had to pay $250,000 each for the experience. 
Video does not show that Donald Trump floating a Biden body double conspiracy theory  by saying an imposter is pretending to be president.Former President Donald Trump was commenting on President Joe Biden’s mental competency in these video clips. A  misleading recent Instagram fake post leans into long-running conspiracy theories that President Joe Biden has been replaced by an impostor. The June 1 post features two photos of Biden in which his earlobes are circled. The changes in his earlobes over the years are often cited as evidence that the person supposedly now claiming to be Biden is not the same man who once served in the U.S. Senate.  Above these images is a video montage of comments made by former President Donald Trump. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture has a voluntary program for qualifying people to designate their gardens as People’s Gardens But the agency doesn't require Americans to register their gardens. The Instagram video was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.We reached out to the U.S. Department of Agriculture about the claim but didn't hear back. Looking for evidence online, we found an October 2022 blog post that seemed to echo the Instagram video’s claims. The post claimed the department was "now asking people to register their vegetable gardens for national database."
The Instagram post misrepresented the World Economic Forum page on Shahzada Dawood.Titan passenger Shahzada Dawood was not the World Economic Forum’s vice chairman. A conspiracy theory shared on social media suggested a passenger’s connection to the World Economic Forum had something to do with the imploded Titan submersible.He was referring to Shahzada Dawood and his son, Suleman, two of the submersible five passengers.The man showed a screenshot of a page about Shahzada Dawood on the World Economic Forum website. 
Accounting error on military support does not mean US sent Ukraine $6.2 billion by mistake.The Pentagon did not say it sent Ukraine $6.2 billion by mistake.  It said it made an accounting error, overvaluing U.S. weapons and other military support sent to Ukraine by $6.2 billion.The error has the effect of allowing for $6.2 billion more in military aid to be given to Ukraine.That doesn't mean, as a Facebook user claimed, that the Pentagon sent $6.2 billion in cash to Ukraine by mistake. Military officials counted the replacement cost of the weapons and equipment instead of the "net book value," Pentagon spokesperson Sabrina Singh said at a June 20 press briefing.
California bill affects custody disputes, doesn’t charge parents with child abuse for refusing to ‘affirm’ their kid’s gender identity.”.California Assembly Bill 957, still under consideration by the state’s Legislature, would add a parent’s affirmation of a child’s gender identity to a list of considerations a judge must weigh when resolving custody disputes. The bill would amend one section of the California family code and would not change the penal code, where the crime of child abuse is outlined.The current version would amend Section 3011 of the California family code, which outlines the factors a judge overseeing custody disputes must consider when determining what’s in the child’s best interest. 
A June 21 Facebook post falsely claimed that the Titan submersible was found with all passengers alive. The claim was made while search efforts were still ongoing.The claim was made even as search efforts were ongoing; the fate of the passengers remained unknown as of mid-day June 22.The submersible disappeared while on an Atlantic Ocean expedition to view the wreckage of the Titanic. The ship struck an iceberg and sank in 1912, killing all but about 700 of the roughly 2,200 passengers and crew.On the morning of June 22, The Associated Press was continuing to report live updates about the search, including a French deep sea robot having joined the efforts. 
A recent Facebook post declared the five people aboard the Titan submersible dead, reporting that "the world is mourning millionaires lost in the depths of the sea have been found dead" ,But that’s wrong.  The Titan, which on June 18 was en route to visit the wreckage of the Titanic, has not been found.A search is still underway for the Titan submersible that disappeared June 18 en route to see the wreckage of the Titanic. As of this Facebook post’s publication — and this story’s publication — the five people aboard had not been found dead.
Federal officials in Trump’s administration said the election was secure, and dozens of judges, including GOP appointees, rejected claims by Trump and his allies that there was widespread fraud. A Facebook post misleadingly suggested that one of former President Donald Trump’s lawyers has just unveiled new proof of fraud in the 2020 presidential election which is wrong and not true. Trump lost to Biden, and allegations of a rigged election have been rebutted by audits, judges and officials in Trump’s administration.Ballot collection or "ballot harvesting," involves gathering absentee ballots from voters, sometimes by paid operatives, and delivering them to drop boxes or voting locations.
The COVID-19 vaccines shots don't contain ‘monkey virus DNA’.There is no evidence to support this claim. Monkey DNA and the SV40 virus are also not listed among the ingredients for the COVID-19 vaccines that federal regulators approved. Pfizer also told PolitiFact that it did not use African green monkey DNA in its vaccines. The Epoch Times article cited a study, which has not been peer-reviewed, that found part of a DNA sequence called an SV40 promoter in two expired vials of the Pfizer vaccine. But the SV40 promoter is not the same as the SV40 virus and is not cause for concern, molecular biology experts told PolitiFact.
Canadian wildfire smoke recently darkened New York City, disrupting schools and services and blanketing the skyline in haze. But a recent Facebook post suggests that the flames weren't to blame. Instead, the June 18 post points the finger at philanthropist Bill Gates. It was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.Wildfires are to blame for New York’s recent hazy skies, not  the sun dimming technology of Bill Gates. The misinformation hinges on a small-scale experiment proposed by Harvard University researchers that would spray aerosols into the atmosphere to reflect some sunlight back into space. 
Videos and photos of military equipment on the streets and in the skies in the U.S. are not proof of "war prep" or coming military action within the country. The examples we examined are showing routine military training exercises or patriotic celebrations, and in one case is likely related to presidential travel.Because there are thousands of military bases in the United States and Canada, it’s not uncommon for people who live nearby to see military vehicles on local roads or military aircraft overhead.But some social media users are pointing to these routine sightings as grist for a baseless conspiracy that the military is mobilizing against its own citizens. Things are happening, but the explanations are much more mundane, and less sinister than the claim suggests.
"Unprecedented UFO landing shrouds Las Vegas, Nevada in mystery," read the headline of a June 16 blog post. It showed two photos and went on to claim that UFOs descended from the sky. One photo showed an orb arcing across what looks like sky; the other showed something glowing behind clouds. NASA told the Las Vegas Review-Journal that a recent bright light that some residents confused with a possible UFO sighting was a meteor and the photos showing the light are old. First, those photos aren’t from a recently reported UFO landing in Nevada. The first image has been online for more than a year, while the other showed a 2004 photo taken by a retired Royal Air Force officer in Sri Lanka. 
​The health effects linked to particulate pollution exposure have been studied and documented for decades. These effects include respiratory and cardiovascular health problems and premature death. The Environmental Protection Agency’s assessment of particulate matter shows a clear evidence that wildfire smoke to affects health and is not a junk science.Wildfires in Canada drastically affected the air quality in multiple U.S. states in June’s second week, leading residents to reach for face masks to mitigate risks brought about by inhaling particle pollution.On Fox News, a guest on "The Ingraham Angle" claimed these concerns were unfounded.
A conservative commentator mischaracterized the remarks of Bill Barr, who served as attorney general under former President Donald Trump as Bill Barr did not call Trump a spy.
The French coast guard said the vessel got into difficulty in the sea near Calais in the early hours of Saturday.Six people have died after a boat carrying migrants sank in the Channel, off the French coast.Fifty-nine people - many of them Afghans - were rescued by French and British coastguards, officials said. But the search for two people who may still be missing has been called off.Some people were seen being brought off a lifeboat in Dover on stretchers.The extent of injuries remain unclear and the exact numbers of those rescued changed during the day as more information was released.The six people who died were Afghan men thought to be in their 30s, the AFP news agency reported Philippe Sabatier, deputy public prosecutor for the French coastal city of Boulogne, as saying.
Ten-year-old Miao Chunyou screamed for her mum as she disappeared into a brown torrent that had engulfed western Beijing. Moreover it is also confirmed many families torn apart by the floods in china. The strong currents ripped Miao from her father's grip as floods, triggered by incessant rains, chased the family of three to the roof of a neighbour's house.Her mother, clinging to a tree branch, watched helplessly. That was the last time she saw Miao. More than 10 days have passed but the couple has heard no news about their daughter". It was like a scene from a movie, with huge, furious waves," Miao's mother tells the BBC. She only shared her last name, Chang.Sixty-two people have so far been confirmed dead in the deluge - 33 from Beijing and 29 from neighbouring Hebei province.
The bodies of 23 Rohingyas who were fleeing Myanmar's Rakhine state have been recovered dead after their boat sank. Thirty others are still missing, while eight people are reported to have survived the accident. The survivors said they were trying to reach Malaysia when their boat carrying more than 50 passengers foundered and was abandoned by its crew on Sunday. Every year thousands of Rohingyas attempt the perilous sea journey to Malaysia or Indonesia. They are escaping persecution in Myanmar and overcrowded refugee camps in Bangladesh. Those who died this week include 13 women and 10 men, all Rohingya Muslims, a rescue team told BBC Burmese.
A well-known Top Norwegian climber has denied accusations that her team climbed over an dying guide on k2 during a bid to break a world record. The porter, named as Mohammed Hassan, had fallen off a ledge on Pakistan's K2 - the world's second-highest mountain. Video on social media appears to show a group walking by Mr Hassan, who reportedly died a few hours later. But Kristin Harila told the BBC she and her team tried everything to help him in dangerous conditions. "It's a tragic accident... here is a father and son and a husband who lost his life that day on K2. I think that's very, very sad that it ended this way," she said.
Country Garden, which is one of China's biggest property developers, has warned that it could see a loss of up to $7.6bn (£6bn) for the first six months of the year. The announcement is the latest sign of the major issues faced by the world's second largest economy. This week official figures showed China had slipped into deflation for the first time in more than two years. Exports have also fallen sharply, while youth unemployment is at a record high. Shares in Country Garden Holdings were down by more than 5% in Hong Kong trade on Friday afternoon. Country Garden "is expected to record a net loss ranging from approximately RMB45 billion [$6.24bn; £4.9bn] to RMB55 billion for the six months ended 30 June 2023," the company said in an announcement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defeated a no-confidence vote in the parliament after a three-day debate. His government was not expected to lose the vote as his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies have a majority. Mr Modi criticised the vote as an attempt by opposition parties to "defame India". Opposition leaders say the vote was moved to force him to speak on the ethnic clashes in Manipur state. More than 150 people have died and tens of thousands have been displaced in Manipur since May, when clashes broke out between the majority Meitei group and the tribal Kuki minority. Mr Modi publicly addressed the violence weeks later, after a video that showed two women being paraded naked by a mob sparked global outrage.
In a video shared and watched by millions of people in India, a man is seen attacking a person who is wearing a black burka and holding a child. He then forcibly removes the burka to reveal a man. The message accompanying the clip warns in Hindi that people should "be aware" of criminals using the burka - a veil used by Muslim women around the world - to disguise themselves and "kidnap children". The video, published on YouTube earlier this year, has been viewed more than 29 million times before it was deleted. But it did not show real events. It was a dramatisation - a scripted performance with amateur actors. Scripted videos, apparently created for entertainment, are increasingly being shared on social media as true events in India. Often accompanying the staged videos are false claims that stoke religious hatred and misogyny.
A much-praised Oscar-winning Indian documentary is at the centre of a row over allegations that its makers did not keep promises of financial help made to an indigenous couple who starred in it. The Elephant Whisperers made history earlier this year when it became the first Indian documentary to win an Oscar. It tells the story of a couple named Bomman and Bellie who care for an orphaned and injured baby elephant inside the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu. But last week, it emerged that a legal notice had been sent to the makers of the film in June, alleging that they reneged on promises made to the couple, including giving them "a proper house" and "sufficient financial support".Bomman and Bellie confirmed this to BBC Tamil earlier this week.
Six policemen in the Manilla capital are suspended over the fatal shooting of a teenager whom they had mistaken for a murder suspect . Jerhode Baltazar drowned at a fishing village in suburban Manila after being shot in the head last Wednesday. He dove into the water in a panic as police attempted to arrest him. It was a "lapse in judgment" for the policemen to shoot him, given the 17-year-old was unarmed, conceded authorities". They cannot invoke self-defence. They were unable to prove that the victim resisted arrest," Navotas city police chief Col Allan Umipig told local television. It was not immediately clear what led police to believe the teenager was the person they were after. They had been tasked to arrest a suspect in a separate shooting, which also took place in Navotas.
 The electoral commission says electoral boundaries must be redrawn to reflect fresh census data, a months-long process. Last week, former prime minister Imran Khan was arrested and jailed, and then barred from politics for five years. Pakistan's parliament has been formally dissolved, but polls meant to be delayed  held within 90 days will likely be delayed due to latest crisis .He had openly challenged the powerful military establishment and claimed it was "petrified" of elections. With President Arif Alvi's order on Wednesday to dissolve the National Assembly, a caretaker government will take charge. Outgoing Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and his government have been given three days to name an interim leader. A Election Commission of Pakistan official told the BBC: "The elections will be held once the census is done, which will take about four months' time. As a result, the elections may be delayed till next year."
Gig workers in India are celebrating a small but significant victory in their ongoing fight for labour rights in new law. The work is gruelling, hours are long, the pay is meagre and there's no job security or access to basic rights like paid leave, insurance or pension. But on 24 July, the western state of Rajasthan passed a landmark law that aims to provide platform-based gig workers social security benefits - a right they have been demanding for a long time - among other provisions. The Rajasthan Platform Based Gig Workers (Registration and Welfare) Act 2023 proposes to set up a social security fund by imposing a welfare tax of 1%-2% on every transaction made by a customer on apps that fall within its ambit, like food delivery and ride sharing. State government grants and contributions by gig workers will also be pooled into the fund.
About 400 Afghan refugees are leaving temporary hotel accommodation in Essex this week, the BBC has been told. The families are being moved to a mixture of permanent and temporary housing, although some are having their hotel stays extended.Colchester City Council said one household was rehoused 500 miles away in Inverness and others in Norfolk, Oxford and the north of England. The Home Office said it was not in their "best interests" to be in hotels.
Indian opposition leader Rahul Gandhi has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "murdering Mother India" in violence-hit Manipur state. "They killed India in Manipur. Their politics killed India in Manipur," Mr Gandhi said in parliament amid uproar from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. He was speaking during a no-confidence motion debate that the opposition have brought against Mr Modi's government. A vote is due on the motion on Thursday after the debate ends. Mr Modi's government won't lose the vote as his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies have a majority in parliament. But opposition leaders say the debate will force Mr Modi to speak on the ongoing ethnic clashes in Manipur state.
This week people in Thailand have been distracted from the endless wrangling by the unexpected arrival, from the US, of Royal prodigal 42 year-old Thai lawyer, visiting the country for the first time in 27 years. Vacharaesorn Vivacharawongse is the second of four estranged sons of King Vajiralongkorn. Until now they were widely believed to have been stripped of their royal status and to have no place in the line of succession to the throne. But the succession became problematic after the king's eldest daughter Princess Bajrakitiyabha, the most plausible heir, collapsed last December. She is still in a coma and seems unlikely to recover. For years there has been quiet talk in Thailand about the possibility of one of the estranged sons being rehabilitated and brought back to play a royal role. Mr Vacharaesorn's unannounced visit could be the start of such a rehabilitation, although there has been no official statement from the palace.
Several Miss Universe Indonesia candidates have registered police complaints accusing organisers of sexual abuse. The contestants were asked to take off their tops for "body checks" and photographs two days before the finals on 3 August, one of their lawyers said. The organisers allegedly told the women they had "to examine any scars, cellulite or tattoos on their bodies". "I feel that my rights have been violated," one of the contestants said. "It has affected me mentally. I have had trouble sleeping," she said, speaking to the media, alongside other complainants, earlier this week. Local television blurred their faces in the broadcasts to protect their identities. Mellisa Anggraeni, a lawyer who represents three of the contestants who complained, said many others will come forward.
The former prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, has been barred from holding public office for five years by the country's electoral authorities. The decision was announced by the Election Commission of Pakistan three days after Mr Khan was sentenced to three years in prison for corruption.Tuesday's announcement also means Mr Khan will be dismissed as an MP. He maintains the charges are politically motivated, but the Pakistani government denies this. Marriyum Aurangzeb, Pakistan's minister of information and broadcasting, told the BBC before the announcement: "You have to be accountable for your deeds in law. This has nothing to do with politics. A person who has been proven guilty by the court has to be arrested."
China's imports and exports fell more sharply than expected since three years as weaker global demand threatened the recovery prospects of the world's second-largest economy. Official figures show that exports fell by 14.5% in July compared with a year earlier, while imports dropped 12.4%. The grim trade figures reinforce concerns that the country's economic growth could slow further this year. It will increase pressure on Beijing to help boost the post-pandemic recovery. China's economy grew just 3% last year - apart from the slowdown when Covid struck, the weakest rate since 1976 - reflecting the toll from coronavirus restrictions that remained some of the most stringent in the world, long after many other countries had resumed more normal patterns.
Congress party lawmaker Gaurav Gogoi, who brought the motion on 26 July, initiated the debate.India's parliament is debating a no-confidence motion that opposition parties have brought against Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government. Lawmakers will vote on the motion on Thursday after the debate ends. Mr Modi's government won't lose the vote as his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies have a majority in parliament. But opposition leaders say the debate will force Mr Modi to speak on ongoing ethnic clashes in Manipur state. More than 150 people have died and tens of thousands have been displaced in Manipur since early May, when ethnic clashes broke out between the majority Meitei group and the tribal Kuki minority. Mr Modi only publicly addressed the violence weeks later, after a video that showed two women being paraded naked by a mob sparked global outrage.
More than 1,000 buses have begun ferrying scouts at an international event in  jamboree out of a campsite due to an incoming tropical storm. Helicopters and police cars were escorting the buses from the disaster-hit jamboree. The threat of the storm comes just days after hundreds at the camp fell ill in temperatures of 35C (95F). South Korea's president has cut short his holiday to help manage the fallout from the gathering. Attended by more than 40,000 young people from 155 countries, the World Scout Jamboree in Saemangeum has been marred by illness and criticism of its organisation and facilities from the start.
A video captured on a mobile phone shows the moment a parked car rolls down a slope and falls into a waterfall pool in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. The incident happened on Sunday at the Lodhiya Kund waterfall, a popular scenic spot. Local media reported that a teenage girl was in the car at the time and her father also fell into the water as he attempted to save her. Some people then jumped in to save the father and daughter. No major injuries were reported. Police told PTI news agency that the accident occurred due to negligence, as the car was parked very close to the water.
Renowned Spanish actor Rodolfo Sancho Aguirre's son has been charged with murder for killing and dismembering a man in Thailand. Daniel Sancho Bronchalo, 29, pleaded guilty to the murder of Edwin Arrieta Arteaga, 44, in a Thai court on Monday. Police discovered parts of Arrieta's body at a landfill in the southern island of Koh Phangan last week. Mr Sancho told Spanish news agency EFE he had been a "hostage"to Arrieta, who was obsessed with him. The YouTube chef went to a Koh Phangan police station last Thursday to report that Arrieta, a Colombian surgeon, was missing, local media reported. Koh Phangan is a popular beach destination known for its raucous 'full moon' parties.
12 new houses have been bought by a Lincolnshire council to provide homes for refugees fleeing war torn countries .The properties in Langtoft, near Market Deeping, cost £1.8m and will be jointly paid for by the government and South Kesteven District Council.They will be used as temporary accommodation for Afghan and Ukrainian families who have arrived legally in the UK, the council said. Afterwards they will be added to the council's social housing stock.The homes are the first of a total of 21 earmarked for the scheme in the area and are a mix of two and three-bedroom new-build houses and two-bedroom bungalows. Independent councillor Phil Dilks said the properties were expected to be ready by the end of August.
Cabinet Office Minister Johnny Mercer says he will have failed if any Afghan refugees in the UK are forced to sleep on the streets after leaving hotels. "That has not happened. And that is not going to happen," he told the BBC. Thousands are still living in temporary government-funded hotel accommodation - but are now beginning to be moved out over the summer.Afghan refugees moved out of hotels facing homelessness
The remains of four men who were found dead after a mill was destroyed by a fire have been repatriated to their families in Vietnam. Cuong Van Chu, Uoc Van Nguyen, Duong Van Nguyen and Nam Thanh Le were found by demolition workers at Bismark House Mill, Oldham, on 23 July 2022. Four people were arrested on suspicion of manslaughter and remain on bail. Det Supt Lewis Hughes said it was "a huge relief for the bereaved families to finally have their loved ones back". "They have been extremely patient during what has been a difficult time for them, as we ensured that all remains were ethically recovered and identified," he said.
India's Supreme Court has suspended opposition leader Rahul Gandhi's conviction in a criminal defamation case. The Congress leader was sentenced to two years in jail in March for his 2019 comments about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surname at an election rally. Mr Gandhi was disqualified as an MP following his sentencing. Friday's court ruling paves the way for him to return to parliament and contest general elections next year. The office of the lower house of parliament will need to revoke Mr Gandhi's disqualification for him to become an MP again. "This will have to be done immediately," PDT Achary, former secretary general of the lower house, told the BBC. He added that Mr Gandhi can start attending the ongoing parliament session from Monday.
China says it will drop its tariffs on Australian barley imports that had been in place for three years and affected billions of dollars of trade. Australia's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese welcomed the move. Canberra also said it will suspend its case at the World Trade Organization (WTO) over Beijing's duties on barley. In another sign of the thawing relationship between the two nations, Australia this week invited China's new foreign minister to visit the country. China's Ministry of Commerce said the tariffs will be dropped starting on Saturday. "In view of the changes in China's barley market, it is no longer necessary to continue to impose anti-dumping duties and countervailing duties on imported barley from Australia," China's commerce ministry said.
Japan's finance ministry has called on X, formerly known as Twitter, to take down an account impersonating its top currency diplomat Masato Kanda. "Please don't follow the impersonation account and/or comment on the post," the ministry said in a rare post in English on the social media platform. Mr Kanda is a key figure in efforts by the world's third largest economy to stabilise the value of the yen. The fake account now appears to have been suspended. X, which is owned by the multi-billionaire Elon Musk, did not immediately respond to a BBC request for comment.
South Korea's Hyundai Motor and Kia are recalling almost 92,000 vehicles in the US because of a fire risk. The recall affects several models and stems from an issue with an electrical component in a transmission oil pump, which could overheat. The companies advised owners of the vehicles to park outside and away from buildings until they are inspected. This is the latest in a series of fire-related recalls of Hyundai and Kia vehicles in recent years. In relation to the latest recall, Kia said there had been six reports of "thermal incidents" but no crashes or injuries. Hyundai said it had four similar reports and also recorded no crashes, injuries or deaths due to the issue.As well as the fire risk, heat damage could trigger a short circuit affecting other vehicle controllers, Hyundai said.
Taiwan's new anti-sexual harassment laws are being seen as a first step in addressing its MeToo reckoning, but activists say they still fall short. The ruling Democratic Progressive Party raced to toughen laws after it was hit by a wave of sexual assault claims. It led to several resignations from the party and sparked further allegations against other powerful figures, including celebrities. The new laws, which were passed this week, come ahead of a crucial election. Law professor Carol Lin praised the changes as a legislative milestone but said it will take time for society to shed entrenched mindsets that normalise sexual harassment.
Pakistan's former prime minister Imran Khan has told BBC HARDtalk the military is petrified of an election, which is expected to take place later this year. He said Pakistan was under "undeclared martial law" and alleged "fascists" were leading it into the "dark ages". Mr Khan was elected in 2018, ruled for just under four years, and was then ousted in a parliamentary no-confidence vote last year. He said only free and fair elections would restore stability. HARDtalk presenter Stephen Sackur asked the former Prime Minister if his current criticism of the military "meddling" in politics had arisen only since his relationship with the military cooled. 
Hundreds of participants at the 25th World Scout  in Buan, South Korea have been hit by heat exhaustion. Some 400 cases were reported on the first night of the event on Tuesday, with many treated at a makeshift hospital at the campsite. Temperatures have hit 35C (95F) in North Jeolla province, where the event is being held, amid a heatwave warning. Scouts from the US, Bangladesh and the UK have been affected, local media is reporting. The UK contingent is expected to be the largest in South Korea, numbering about 4,500 of the total 43,000 in attendance. The UK Foreign Office said the situation was being closely monitored. "Consular officials are on site to support attendees as planned and in line with standard practice for such events," a spokesperson for the Foreign Office added".
Blackpink's Jisoo has become one of the highest-profile K-pop stars to go public in her relationship  with Ahn Bo-hyun, in a highly pressurised industry. The 28-year-old and actor Ahn Bo-hyun, 35, are "getting to know each other with good feelings", according to Korean media reports. The couple's respective agencies acknowledged the relationship on Thursday, asking the public for their support and understanding. Ahn, a Korean model and actor, has appeared in popular drama series such as Itaewon Class and Yumi's Cells.
North Korea has acknowledged the custody of Travis King, an American soldier, in its initial response to inquiries regarding his location, according to the UN Command's announcement. The 23-year-old private made a daring move by crossing the border from South Korea on July 18 while participating in a guided tour. As of now, the UN Command has refrained from disclosing further details regarding Pyongyang's response, citing a desire not to disrupt ongoing efforts aimed at repatriating King. Nonetheless, this response signifies a potential willingness on North Korea's part to engage in negotiations. The UN Command, entrusted with overseeing the Demilitarised Zone (DMZ), had employed its direct communication channel with the North Korean Army (KPA) in the Joint Security Area to seek information about Private 2nd Class (PV2) King.
Chinese technology shares fell after the country's cyberspace regulator recommended limiting smartphone usage of children under 18. Shares of firms like Alibaba and video-sharing site Bilibili fell on Wednesday and saw more losses early on Thursday. The proposed law would see children being only allowed to use their phones for a maximum of two hours a day. It comes four years after children in the world's second-largest economy were subject to gaming restrictions. The rules proposed by the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), will also see children banned from accessing the internet on mobile devices from 22:00 to 06:00 local time.
Australia's national gallery will return three 9th and 10th Century bronze artefacts to Cambodia, after they were found to be stolen. It follows a decade-long investigation carried out by the two countries to determine the origin of the works. Cambodia's government welcomed the historic move as "an important step towards rectifying past injustices". It comes amid a global push to return looted cultural goods. The three artworks originally came from the Champa Kingdom that once inhabited Vietnam and parts of Cambodia. The National Gallery of Australia (NGA) says it purchased the sculptures in 2011 for A$2.3m (£1.18m; $1.5m) from British artefacts smuggler Douglas Latchford - who died in 2020. 
Councillors voted on Wednesday evening to accept a £471,950 Home Office grant to make five properties available for the project, which is expected to cost up to £1.14m. Boston Borough Council has agreed to accommodate refugee Afghan families as part of a government schemeThe council said the properties could be used as temporary accommodation for homeless families in the longer term. Thousands fled Afghanistan after the Taliban returned to power in 2021. Those Afghans who helped British armed forces have since been offered refuge under the UK government's Afghan citizens resettlement scheme. Four properties will be reserved for Afghan households, while the outstanding one will be used as general, temporary accommodation by the council to meet wider housing needs.
Twenty people have died and three were injured after a crane collapsed on Monday night at the site of an under-construction bridge in Shahapur. . The victims are mostly construction workers and site engineers. The police, fire brigade and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed in rescue operations at the accident site until Tuesday. The state government has announced an inquiry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted his condolences and announced compensation for the injured and families of the victims.
Thousands of women in Africa will die in pregnancy and childbirth as a result of cuts to the UK's overseas aid budget, ministers have been warned. According to an internal assessment by civil servants, almost 200,000 more women will also face unsafe abortions. Their report reveals the impact of cuts this year to the overseas aid budget. The Foreign Office says its budget for low-income countries has been cut in the short-term to hit a savings target, but will then nearly double. The internal document says a 76% cut in aid for Afghanistan will leave some of the world's most vulnerable women and girls without critical services. And half a million women and children in Yemen will not receive healthcare.
Video from China’s Sichuan Province shows a giant panda suffering a bout of the hiccups.  The animal was filmed at Wolong Shenshuping panda base, in Sichuan province, a world-leading centre in Panda conservation efforts.
Warner Bros has apologised after an official Barbie Movie account replied to Barbenheimer memes featuring atom bomb images. Some images showed Margot Robbie with a mushroom cloud hairstyle. The official Barbie movie account replied: "This Ken is a stylist". Barbie is scheduled to be released on 11 August in Japan - five days after the 78th anniversary of the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima. #NoBarbenheimer has been trending. Other meme images that enraged Japanese social media users include one showing Cillian Murphy, who played Robert Oppenheimer - known as the "father of the atomic bomb", carrying Ms Robbie on his shoulder through a burning city. The Barbie movie official account replied: "It's going to be a summer to be remembered".
At least 11 people have died and 13 others are missing in torrential rains in Beijing as China braces for the third typhoon in as many weeks. The remnants of last week's super storm Doksuri flooded Beijing for the fourth straight day on Tuesday even as another typhoon approached the eastern coast. More than 50,000 people in the city have been evacuated so far, according to state media. The flooding has hit several districts, disrupting train services and traffic. At least a dozen people were killed in the Philippines and Taiwan as Doksuri passed through at the end of last week on its way to China. Heavy rains are likely to persist this week, and flooding could worsen in northern regions around Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei province, the emergency management ministry has warned.
A mosque was set on fire and a Muslim cleric killed during religious clashes that broke out after a procession by Hindu nationalist groups in the northern Indian state of Haryana. Those killed in the violence in the state include two "home guards", who assist the police in controlling riots and public disturbances, police say. Several policemen are among the injured and have been admitted to hospital. A curfew has been imposed in Nuh town where the clash took place. Chief Minister ML Khattar has called the incident "unfortunate" and appealed for peace. Violence broke out on Monday afternoon during a procession taken out by the Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Footage from Nuh showed stone-pelting by a mob as cars were set on fire and shops were vandalised.
Former Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi pardoned part of a seasonal amnesty, will reduce her 33-year jail sentence by six years. Former president Win Myint, who was ousted along with Ms Suu Kyi, also received a reduced jail sentence after getting two of his charges pardoned. Periodic amnesties have been announced before, but this is the first time they have included Ms Suu Kyi and Mr Myint. The military junta has made other concessions in what appears to be an effort to revive stalled diplomacy efforts. Last week, Ms Suu Kyi was moved from prison to house arrest in the capital Nay Pyi Taw. The 78-year-old Nobel laureate has been detained by the military since February 2021 following the coup that ousted her.
A couple in the Philippines have pressed ahead with their wedding, despite flooding in the wake of Typhoon Doksuri on Sunday. Guests and family members could be seen wading through floodwaters in gumboots and sandals at the Barasoain Church in Malolos. Typhoon Doksuri, known locally as Egay, as well as Typhoon Falcon have strengthened monsoon rains in the region and caused flooding in many parts of the province of Bulacan.
The US has urged Afghanistan's ruling Taliban to "reverse policies responsible for the deteriorating human rights situation" in the country, particularly for women, girls, and "vulnerable communities". It also pressed for the release of detained US citizens during talks with Taliban representatives in Qatar. The Taliban said they wanted travel restrictions lifted for their leaders. The Islamist hardliners swept back to power in Afghanistan in August 2021. This followed the chaotic withdrawal of US troops from the country after years of war.
In June, 11 women sanitation workers from the southern Indian overjoyed to find out they had hit the lottery jackpot of 100m rupees ($1. 2m; £946,685). The women are part of a group that collects non-biodegradable waste from households in Parappanangadi town in Kerala's Malappuram district. They usually get around 250 rupees a day - from monthly payments made by the households - and occasionally a share of the money made by the local corporation from selling the segregated waste they collect. The money, they say candidly, is not enough to make ends meet. Most of the women have borrowed money and taken loans for their children's education and other expenses.
A zoo in eastern China Hangzhou Zoo has reassured visitors its sun bears are real rather than humans, after footage of one animal standing like a person sent rumours flying online. Responding to a viral video of a bear on its hind legs, Hangzhou Zoo said people "don't understand" the species. Social media users had speculated that the bear could be a person in costume. Sun bears, the smallest bear species in the world, are generally the size of a large dog, the zoo says. They are an endangered species native to the rainforests of Southeast Asia. In the video, the sun bear is seen standing tall on the edge of its enclosure, holding its paws by its side and seemingly observing the zoo's visitors for itself. People on social media had questioned how the bear could stand so upright on slender legs, as well as the appearance of what looks to be skin bagging around its hips - some noting the similarity to those on an ill-fitting bear suit. 
The Taliban have burned musical instruments in Afghanistan, claiming music "causes moral corruption". Thousands of dollars worth of musical equipment went up in smoke on a bonfire on Saturday in western Herat province. Since taking power in 2021, the Taliban have imposed numerous restrictions, including on playing music in public. Ahmad Sarmast, Afghanistan National Institute of Music founder, likened their actions to "cultural genocide and musical vandalism". "The people of Afghanistan have been denied artistic freedom… The burning of musical instruments in Herat is just a small example of the cultural genocide that is taking place in Afghanistan under the leadership of the Taliban," Dr Sarmast, who is now based in Portugal, told the BBC.
The council said the funding would allow them to continue to "help with essential aspects such as paying deposits and rent in advance" . West Oxfordshire District Council (WODC) said it was committed to keep helping refugee groups and individuals find permanent homes. It has received a £220,541 government grant for Ukrainian guests and others in need until the end of 2024. A woman who benefitted from the scheme called it "a good starting point". WODC supports three primary refugee schemes for Syrians, Afghans and Ukrainians but it does not limit its help to these specific groups. It said it had also been "actively supporting Ukrainian families and individuals in finding permanent homes" through the Homes for Ukraine scheme.
India has confirmed that an object that washed up on a Western Australian beach recently was from one of its rockets. The giant metal dome was found at Green Head beach, about 250 km (155 miles) north of Perth, in mid-July - prompting speculation about its origins. India's space agency spokesman told the BBC on Monday it was from one of its Polar Satellite Launch Vehicles (PSLV). Sudhir Kumar added that it would be up to Australia to decide what to do with the object. He did not comment further. His comments came after the Australian Space Agency (ASA) on Wednesday said that the object was "most likely" the third stage of a PSLV, which are used by India to launch satellites into orbit.
Storm Doksuri has been causing widespread flooding and has led to chaos across northern China. In the capital, at least 31,000 people have been forced to flee their homes, while subway stations have been closed. While the storm - a former super-typhoon - is weakening, officials have urged people to remain indoors. A red alert has been issued in the city and employers have been ordered to allow people to work from home, with the death toll from the severe flooding expected to rise in the coming days. Rainfall in Beijing and other cities in northern China has already reached dangerously high levels, while driving rains are expected to continue for at least another 24 hours.At least two people have died in Beijing as China is battered by one of the strongest storms to hit the country in years. 
A constable with India's Railway Protection Force (RPF) has been arrested after he shot dead four people on a train near the city of Mumbai. Authorities said the accused, Chetan Kumar, killed a senior RPF official and three passengers. They said they are investigating his motive and trying to identify the dead passengers. RPF personnel are tasked with the protection of railway passengers and property in India. The shooting took place around 05:30 local time (midnight GMT) on a train travelling from Jaipur in the western state of Rajasthan towards Mumbai city in Maharashtra. Mr Kumar first opened fire on Tikaram Meena, an assistant sub-inspector with the RPF, before shooting three other passengers, according to an RPF statement.

 More than 100 people were also injured in the explosion in Bajaur district, where Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) was holding a meeting.At least 45 people have been killed in a suicide bombing at an Islamist party rally in north-west Pakistan. No group has said it carried out the attack, which is being investigated. A motive remains unclear. Officials have warned the death toll may rise further, as several people are in a critical condition. The authorities say a rescue operation has been completed and all injured have been taken to hospital. Security forces have cordoned off the area while the investigation takes place. The police chief of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa confirmed that the explosion was a result of a suicide blast. According to bomb disposal teams, approximately 10kg of explosive material was used in the attack.
A man was rescued by firefighters in Wu'an city in Hebei, China, after he was trapped in his car in a raging floodwaters . The rescue was captured on state television as devastating floods hit the region in the wake of Typhoon Doksuri.
The Philippines has end  of the Women's World Cup after a euphoric campaign that united a country where football is not the national sport. It was a "magical" debut that saw the country's first World Cup goal and gave birth to new sport idols, the Philippine Football Federation said. The Filipinas lost to Norway 6-0 on Sunday, five days after handing hosts New Zealand a shock 1-0 loss. Filipinos cheered their new sports heroes, who vowed to return stronger. Coach Alen Stajcic praised the team, many of whom are Filipino-American, for punching "so far above their weight". "They are a classy team and they picked us apart. We tried hard all the way to the end and I am proud of the heart and spirit of our team," he said. Striker Sarina Bolden, who scored the country's historic first World Cup goal during the match with New Zealand, said on Sunday: "As is how football goes, things [don't always] go in your way. "
Refugees and activists tell the BBC intimidating tactics are tearing communities apart. China is pressuring Uyghurs living abroad to spy on human rights campaigners by threatening families back home, researchers say. "My dearest son," said Alim's mother as she flickered into view. "I didn't think I'd see you before I died. " Alim - not his real name - says he was overcome by the moment. The reunion over a video call was their first contact in six years, since he fled as a refugee to the UK. But it was bittersweet: someone else was in control of the call. Like all Uyghurs - a mostly Muslim minority from north-western China - Alim's mother lives under intense surveillance and control. They could never call each other directly.
 Mr Crosetto claimed the initiative had done little to boost Italy's exports, making China the only winner. Italy have regrets made an "improvised and atrocious" decision in joining China's Belt and Road (BRI) initiative, defence minister Guido Crosetto has said.China has previously said both nations have seen "fruitful results" as a result of the BRI. Italy became the first developed economy to join the BRI in 2019 - a move criticised by its Western allies. The global investment programme envisions connecting China with Europe and beyond through rebuilding the old Silk Road trade route. Under it, China provides funding for major infrastructure projects around the world, in a bid to speed Chinese goods to markets further afield. Critics see it as a tool for China to spread influence. Both the EU and the US expressed concern when Italy decided to join the scheme four years ago.
The explosion in Sungai Kolok, on the Malaysian border, seriously injured at least 115 people and is thought to have been caused by construction work. At least ten people have been killed, including three children, in a blast at a fireworks warehouse in a market in southern Thailand on Saturday. Residents described hearing a huge explosion at around 15:00 (09:00 BST). The force shook buildings, shattered windows and collapsed roofs, sending a massive plume of smoke into the air. The explosion has also destroyed a large part of the town in Narathiwat province. The market fire has been brought under control and a preliminary investigation indicates a "technical error" in steel welding during construction work on the building was responsible, local governor Sanon Pongsakorn said.At least ten people have been killed, including three children, in a blast at a fireworks warehouse in a market in southern Thailand on Saturday. 
Ten people have been killed and more than 115 injured after a blast at a fireworks warehouse in a market in southern Thailand on Saturday. The blast in Sungai Kolok, on the Malaysian border is thought to have been caused by construction work. The market fire is now under control, the local governor told the AFP news agency. A preliminary investigation indicates a "technical error" during steel welding was responsible, officials said.
Young children at a GAA club in County Londonderry have welcomed members of a Cambodian club to their pitches. Michael Davitt GAC in Swatragh hosted Cairde Khmer for games and training on Friday afternoon. The Cambodian teams had been competing in the GAA world games in Owenbeg and Celtic Park this week. Conor Wall is one of Cairde Khmer's co-founders and said the games had been a trip of a lifetime for many of the players. "Cambodia would be a developing country. Some of our players come from middle class to low middle class to very underprivileged families," he said.
Singapore is scheduled to execute a woman for the first time in almost 20 years, human rights advocates say. Singaporean national Saridewi Djamani, 45, was found guilty of trafficking 30g (1. 06oz) of heroin in 2018. She will be the second drug convict to be executed in three days, after fellow Singaporean Mohd Aziz bin Hussain, and the 15th since March 2022. Singapore has some of the world's toughest anti-drug laws, which it says are necessary to protect society. Aziz was convicted of trafficking 50g of heroin. Under Singapore law, the death penalty can be applied for trafficking of more than 15 g of heroin and more than 500g of cannabis. Singapore's Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) said Aziz was accorded "full due process", and that his appeal against his conviction and sentence was dismissed in 2018.

Ukrainian authorities are investigating whether a member of parliament broke the law when he took a family holiday to the Maldives. Officials are banned from travelling abroad on holiday, while men of conscription age need special permission to leave the country. The security service opened a criminal case to assess whether Yuriy Aristov gave false information to authorities. He could face up to three years in jail if convicted, investigators say. The State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) and the Security Service of Ukraine have opened a criminal case to establish whether Mr Aristov gave false information in applying to leave the country.
Cambodia's Prime Minister Hun Sen, one of the world's longest-serving leaders, has announced he will resign and hand over to his son in early August. The anticipated announcement came three days after his party again won all seats at an uncompetitive election. Hun Sen, 70, has become increasingly authoritarian after nearly four decades of rule in Cambodia. He first flagged a transition in 2021, but up to now no one knew exactly when it would take place. His eldest son, Hun Manet, until recently the commander of the Royal Cambodian Army, has long been groomed for the role. In his announcement, Hun Sen said his son would be appointed prime minister on 10 August.
A Russian delegation led by Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu has arrived in North Korea, to be joined by a Chinese delegation later on Wednesday. They will attend Pyongyang's celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the end of the Korean War, marked typically by massive military parades. The visits are the first of their kind to the North since it shut its borders to try to keep out the pandemic. It is unclear if this signals a change in Pyongyang's border policies. Reclusive North Korea had sealed itself off from all trade and diplomatic ties in early 2020, even with Russia and China, its main economic and political partners. They even cut off imports of essential goods like food and medicine.
A giant Buddha statue has been damaged by a fire in China's north-west Gansu province. Videos shared on social media showed the statue at the Great Buddha Temple of Shandan County surrounded by flames in the early hours of Monday morning. After the fire was extinguished, the statue appeared to remain partially intact, but several temple structures were destroyed. The statue was built in 1998 as a replica of an original which is thought to have dated back to around 425 AD. This older iteration was damaged during China's Cultural Revolution. No casualties have been reported so far and an investigation into the fire is underway.
An Indian man who discovered a rare new species of fish almost three years ago has found renewed fame after Hollywood superstar Leonardo DiCaprio praised him online. Abraham A, a former paramilitary soldier from the southern state of Kerala, found a new species of subterranean fish called Pathala Eel Loach in 2020. The fish gets its name from the Sanskrit word Pathala which means "below the feet", a reference to its subterranean nature. The small, snake-like species lives in aquifers - large layers of permeable rock and sediments that hold groundwater. Mr Abraham, who lives in Alappuzha district, said the discovery was made by chance - he was taking a bath when he spotted "a red thread in the bucket". Intrigued, he scooped it out to take a closer look and found the thread was moving.
Taiwan has cancelled parts of its largest military drills as it braces for what could be the strongest typhoon to hit the island in four years. Doksuri has roared to super typhoon strength with winds of 240 km/h (149mph) and is headed to waters that separate Taiwan and the Philippines. The annual Han Kuang drills that began on Monday test Taiwan's defence in case of an attack from China. It is unclear if the rest of the five-day-long exercise will be disrupted. Taiwan regards itself as a self-ruled island, distinct from mainland China, with its own laws and democratically elected leader. However, China sees island as a breakaway province that will eventually be brought under Beijing's control, by force if necessary.

Twitter has changed its brand and logo from its famous blue bird to "X". The new white X on a black background has replaced the blue bird on the desktop version of the social network, although is yet to appear on the mobile app. "Tweets" will also be replaced, according to Twitter's owner Elon Musk, and posts will be called "x's". The billionaire changed his profile picture to the new logo and added "X. com" to his Twitter bio. Mr Musk wants to create a "super app" called X - his vision for a new kind of social media platform that he has been talking about creating for months. On Sunday, the billionaire said he was looking to change Twitter's logo, tweeting: "And soon we shall bid adieu to the Twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds. "

11 people have died after the roof of a school gymnasium in north-east China collapsed while it was being used by a girls' volleyball team, state media reports. Many of the victims are children, eyewitnesses told local media, although this is yet to be officially confirmed. Anguished parents have thronged a nearby hospital seeking updates. Only eight of the 19 people who were inside the gym in the industrial province of Heilongjiang survived. Police have detained the bosses at a local construction company, according to local media. They have been accused of dumping perlite, a form of volcanic glass, on the roof of the gym while working on an adjacent building project.
Indian authorities have called off efforts to find survivors four days after a deadly landslide hit a village in the western state of Maharashtra. Twenty-seven bodies were found while 57 people are still missing after the landslide, which occurred in Irshalwadi village in Raigad district. Rescue efforts were hindered by the tough terrain and heavy rain. The decision was taken after talking to the Raigad administration and other authorities, a state minister said. The landslide, which took place on Wednesday night, flattened several homes in the village, which is located halfway up the slope of a steep mountain called Irshalgad. The mountain range, which is part of the Deccan Traps (a volcanic province), was formed over 60 million years ago, says Janhavee Moole from BBC Marathi.
Sophia Duleep Singh, a princess who fought for women's voting rights in the UK, remains a little-known figure in India, the country of her ancestry. In 1910, she was part of a delegation of 300 suffragettes who marched towards the parliament in London, seeking an audience with then Prime Minister HH Asquith. But Asquith refused to meet the women and the demonstration turned violent as policemen and men in the crowd outside the building beat them. Many of the demonstrators were seriously injured and the day came to be called Black Friday in the UK. Sophia was among the 119 women who were arrested. She was the daughter of Maharaja Sir Duleep Singh - the last Sikh emperor of Punjab - and a goddaughter of Queen Victoria.
Afghan women mourns Hair and beauty salons across Afghanistan will close in the coming weeks on the Taliban's orders. Their closure will lead to the loss of an estimated 60,000 jobs. Salons had been allowed to keep operating since the Taliban took power two years ago, but it reversed its position last month. The decision further restricts spaces open to Afghan women, who are already banned from classrooms, gyms and parks. 23-year-old Zarmina was in a beauty salon getting her hair dyed dark brown when news of the approaching closures came through. "The owner got a big shock and started to cry. She is the breadwinner for her family," the mother of two said. "I couldn't even look at the mirror when my eyebrow was being done. Everyone was in tears. There was silence. "
British pop-rock band The 1975 has cancelled upcoming concerts in Indonesia and Taiwan after seeing LGBT row  in Malaysia . Lead singer Matty Healy attacked Malaysia's anti-LGBT laws on Friday and kissed bass player Ross MacDonald on stage - the band was swifty banned from playing in the country. Homosexuality is illegal in Malaysia and punishable by 20 years in prison. It is shunned - but not illegal - in most of Muslim-majority Indonesia. But it is banned in Indonesia's conservative Aceh province. The band said it had cancelled its Indonesia and Taiwan gigs "due to current circumstances", without elaborating. Taiwan is largely seen as welcoming to the LGBT community. It was the first place in Asia to legalise same-sex marriage.
Voting is under way in Cambodia, where the country's long-term leader Hun Sen  is virtually certain to extend his party's rule in a poll where there are no serious challengers . People turning up to the polls in Phnom Penh told the BBC they expected the Cambodian People's Party (CPP) to sweep all 125 seats in parliament again. Hun Sen, who has been in power for 38 years, faces no real challenge after the only credible opposition party was disqualified in May. Critics have called the vote a sham. "It's a rigged election because there are no real strong opposition parties," one voter, an aid worker in Phnom Penh, told the BBC earlier this week.
Twenty two people have died and more than hundred are still trapped after a massive landslide hit a village in the western Indian state of Maharashtra . The landslide occurred in Irshalwadi village in Raigad district on Wednesday night and flattened several homes. Rescue efforts have resumed after they were halted on Thursday night due to heavy rain. Officials say the disaster spot is located on a hilltop and the tough terrain is hindering rescue operations. Around 105 people are still missing, the Maharashtra government has said. Several states in India have had heavy rainfall over the past two weeks, triggering floods and landslides. India's weather department has said the rainfall will continue over the next few days in parts of Maharashtra state, including Raigad district. 
A festival in Malaysia has been cancelled after British singer 1975  Matty Healy attacked the country's anti-LGBT laws. During the performance by his band The 1975 at the Good Vibes Festival, Healy addressed the audience in a profanity-laden speech before kissing bass player Ross MacDonald. The band then ended their set, claiming officials ordered them off stage. Homosexuality is illegal in Malaysia and punishable by 20 years in prison. The band were headlining the Good Vibes Festival in the capital Kuala Lumpur on Friday. On Saturday the festival's organisers said the remaining schedule for the festival had been cancelled following the controversy. 
A retired federal police officer in Canada has been charged with foreign interference on behalf of China following a two-year investigation. William Majcher, 60, allegedly used his contacts in Canada to help China "intimidate an individual outside the scope of Canadian law. " Canadian officials have repeatedly warned of ongoing Chinese intelligence activities in the country. Targets are said to include members of parliament and Chinese dissidents. China has strongly denied the allegations. In a statement, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said that Mr Majcher, a native of Hong Kong, "allegedly used his knowledge and his extensive network of contacts in Canada to obtain intelligence or services to benefit the People's Republic of China". Mr Majcher now faces two criminal counts: preparatory acts for the benefit of a foreign entity and conspiracy. Both charges fall within Canada's Security of Information Act.
Wuxi East railway station, in eastern China, has been hit by flooding that caused waterfalls to form, with water seen cascading down escalators and staircases.parts of central and eastern China have been hit by a wave of extreme weather in recent months - including heavy rain and flooding.
The Pentagon says it considers army private Travis King to be "absent without leave" in North Korea after he crossed the border during a tour. Officials also admitted they had no idea of his condition or where he was being held. Earlier the White House said the US had tried to contact Pyongyang through "multiple channels" but had had no response. PV2 King dashed across the heavily fortified border area on Tuesday. It is unclear if he has defected or hopes to return. The Washington-based news website the Messenger said it had seen an internal US government report which described PV2 King's actions when he crossed the border. It quoted the report as saying PV2 King sprinted up to a building on the North Korean side. He is said to have banged vigorously on the door, and when there was no answer, he ran around the back and got into a van. 
BTS star Jung Kook says the band's solo projects will make them more powerful when they reform. The superstar boy band are currently on a break while some members serve in the South Korean military. It's left the rest, Jung Kook included, free to launch their own material - and he's just released a single, Seven. He told Radio 1's Live Lounge the solo work would allow each member to explore their tastes, and then make sure they come back stronger when they reform. Jung Kook performed Seven and a cover of Oasis' Let There Be Love when he appeared on Radio 1 earlier. He also spoke to hosts Rickie, Melvin and Charlie about his solo material and the future of BTS.
The emergence of a horrific video that shows two naked women being paraded and molested by a mob in the violence-hit Indian state of Manipur has highlighted who often pays the highest price during conflict.The assault on the women took place almost three months ago but became public only on Thursday after the video went viral on Twitter. According to a police complaint, one of the women was gang raped. The complaint added that a third woman was also forced to strip but she is not seen in the video.The video shows the distraught women being pushed around and groped by their attackers. While the men's faces are visible, only one person has been arrested so far on charges of gang rape.
Chinese president Xi Jinping has given a warm welcome to former top diplomat Henry Kissinger, as the US pursues closer ties with China. Mr Kissinger's surprise trip to the Chinese capital comes amid a flurry of visits by top US officials. The former secretary of state, who is 100 years old, played a crucial role in helping China emerge from diplomatic isolation in the 1970s. The US has stressed he is visiting in his capacity as a private citizen. But given his outsized stature in China, he could act as a backchannel for US-China negotiations. State television showed Mr Xi smiling as he told Mr Kissinger: "I'm very glad to see you, sir. " They met at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, a more intimate space than the sprawling Great Hall of the People where official meetings with foreign diplomats are usually hosted.
One person was killed and eight wounded in a "terrorist" attack at a Shia Muslim shrine in the Iranian city of Shiraz , state media reported. The official Irna news agency said a gunman attempted to enter the Shah Cheragh mausoleum and opened fire on visitors before he could be subdued. In October, 13 people were killed in an attack on Shah Cheragh that was claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group. No group immediately claimed the latest attack. State media originally reported that two attackers were involved and that four people were killed, but later said there was a lone attacker and that one person was killed. Yadollah Bouali, the regional Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commander, told state TV that "a terrorist entered the gate of the shrine and opened fire with a battle rifle".
Iranian politicians have voted to review a controversial hijab law behind closed doors in a secret - meaning it is likely there will be no public debate on the matter. The so-called Hijab and Chastity Bill would impose a raft of new punishments on women who fail to wear the headscarf. It was drafted in response to months of mass protests triggered by the death in custody of a woman who was accused of not wearing her hijab correctly. Parliament will now be able to approve a three to five year trial of the bill. Iran's Council of Guardians - the country's most powerful legislative body - will first have to approve this. Once the trial begins, MPs will then be able to change the legislation, ultimately making it a permanent law. 
In grainy photographs shot from a plane circling overhead, four people dead in a small, metal boat in an expanse of the Mediterranean Sea wave their arms in distress. It later emerges that the group - a 13-year-old boy, two men and a woman - are the only survivors of a shipwreck that they say killed the other 41 people they were travelling with. The four survived by floating with inner tubes and lifejackets until they found another empty boat, likely from a previous migrant crossing, and clambered in. They spent several days drifting before being rescued. A day after news of the tragedy emerged, migrants in the Tunisian city of Sfax prepared to make the same crossing. One man, who had fled fighting in Sudan's western region of Darfur, told BBC Arabic that he planned to seek asylum in Tunisia, but was ready to board a boat if this didn't work. "I just survived a war, I have nothing to lose," he said. Another, from Kenya, dreamed of a better life for his family in Europe.
The IS group has claimed responsibility for an attack that killed at least 33 Syrian army soldiers and wounded several others in eastern Syria on Friday. The jihadists surrounded a military bus in eastern Deir al-Zour province before opening fire, the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. More than 10 other soldiers were injured and dozens are still missing. The attack has been described as the deadliest this year by IS militants. Through the extremist group's own news outlet, Amaq, IS said its fighters had carried out an ambush "on two military buses", targeting them "with heavy weapons and rocket-propelled grenades" and setting one on fire. The group vowed such attacks will continue. Syria's Sana news agency quoted a military source saying that a "terrorist" group had attacked a military bus on Thursday in the Steppe desert on the road from the T2 pumping station - which lies close to the Iraqi border south of the city of Deir al-Zour - leaving a number of army personnel dead and injured.
A "floating time bomb" oil tanker left adrift in the Red Sea has successfully been drained of its cargo, the UN says. The vessel was abandoned off Yemen in 2015 after war broke out with more than one million barrels of oil on board. It was feared the deteriorating FSO Safer could explode or break apart, causing a major spill. The UN said environmental disaster had been averted but it is unclear how the oil's sale will be agreed between warring sides. German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said the international community had "defused a floating time bomb and prevented a potentially enormous environmental and health disaster". The UN led a $120m (£95m) fundraising effort to secure the decaying ship and buy another tanker to take the recovered oil.
An astronaut has captured an out-of-this-world image of Brighton from above. Sultan Al Neyadi shared the image of the seaside city from the International Space Station, where he has been since March. Born and raised in the United Arab Emirates, Mr Al Neyadi studied at the University of Brighton. He graduated in 2004 in electronics and communications engineering before returning to the UAE to pursue a master's degree. In a post to X, formerly known as Twitter, the Brighton alumni said he spent "memorable years" in the "beautiful" city. "Hello from space to all my friends there," he added.
Iran has released five US-Iranian dual nationals into house arrest, US officials say. Siamak Namazi, Emad Shargi and Morad Tahbaz, who also has a British passport, were released alongside a fourth unidentified man, a lawyer for one of the men said. A fifth American had already been released, a US national security official said. Talks had taken place between Iran and the US to secure their release. "While this is an encouraging step, these US citizens. . . should have never been detained in the first place," said National Security Council spokesperson Adrienne Watson. "Of course, we will not rest until they are all back home in the United States," she added. Iran's mission to the UN confirmed the release of dual nationals from Tehran's Evin prison, according to state media. It said the deal had been "mediated by a third country" and that as part of it, frozen funds in South Korea would be "unblocked and transferred to Qatar," according to Reuters, citing state news agency IRNA.
Vivek Ramaswamy, the Ohio-born entrepreneur , came across like a "blunt-force instrument" during the Fox News Republican Debate on Wednesday, a former top Bush aide told the network after the event. Ramaswamy made waves during the forum, routinely clashing with several other candidates, most notably former Vice President Mike Pence as the two traded barbs about age and governing experience. Ari Fleischer, a former White House spokesman for then-President George W. Bush, said he was impressed by Ramaswamy's tact. "I thought  Florida Gov. RonDeSantis was real good. Second place to me was Vivek Ramaswamy," he said on "Hannity. "
Israeli security forces say they have killed three Palestinian militants near Jenin camp in the occupied West Bank. The Israeli army said the group was preparing an attack and that an automatic rifle was found in their car. Islamic Jihad claimed one of those killed was a member, and vowed a "strong response from the resistance". The deaths on Sunday came a day after a Palestinian gunman fatally shot an Israeli security guard in Tel Aviv. Another guard killed the attacker. He is said to have come from the Jenin area. On Friday, armed Jewish settlers attacked a Palestinian village where a young Palestinian man was shot dead. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu praised the security forces' actions in Jenin, saying: "We will continue to take action - everywhere and at any moment - against those who seek to attack us. " The Jenin camp was the focus of a major Israeli operation last month.
Twenty-four people have died in Morocco after the minibus they were travelling in plunged down a ravine in a mountainous area, authorities say. The bus was taking people to market in central Morocco, when it overturned on a bend, local media say. The cause of the accident on the road to the town of Demnate, at the foot of the Atlas Mountains, is unknown. It is reported to be one of the country's deadliest accidents. Morocco has a poor road-safety record. A picture of the aftermath shows a battered vehicle on its side at the bottom of a slope. "All the passengers are dead," Youssef Makhloufi, director of the Demnate hospital, is quoted by the AFP news agency as telling Moroccan public broadcaster 2M. Two women and a child were among the victims, 2M said. In 2020, an average of eight people a day died on Morocco's roads, according to the International Transport Forum.
Curled up in a zoo in central Nicaragua, eyes alert and ears pricked, a puma is nursing her rare month old snow white cub. The tiny, pink-nosed puma at Thomas Belt Zoo in Juigalpa marks the Central American country's first albino puma to be born in captivity and, according to estimates from zoo veterinarian Carlos Molina, one of only four worldwide. Though the cub is healthy and eating well, Molina warned that it is still early days and that albino pumas require plenty of care and are vulnerable to sunlight.
Scorching temperatures have hurt vines in southern France so much that output will fall but the hot weather could produce a vintage of "exceptional" quality, winemaker Jerome Volle said . he harvested grapes in the early hours of Wednesday to avoid the heat. A hot spell has hit large parts of France in recent days with temperatures expected to peak at 42 degrees Celsius (107. 6 degrees Fahrenheit) in the wine-growing Rhone Valley this week.
In the blistering heat of a Caucasian summer, Tbilisi's stray dogs and cats are struggling to survive. All year round, the Georgian capital plays host to a lively population of four-legged friends. According to activists, around 500,000 stray dogs and cats live in the country alongside 3. 7 million humans. Though the strays spend their days wandering Tbilisi's streets, some are lucky enough to spend the nights in shops and homes, receiving food and shelter from kindly Georgians.
Scientists have taken an important step forward in understanding the human genome - our genetic blueprint - by fully deciphering the enigmatic Y chromosome present in males, an achievement that could help guide research on infertility in men.Researchers on Wednesday unveiled the first complete sequence of the human Y chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes - the X chromosome being the other - and is typically passed down from male parent to male offspring. It is the last of the 24 chromosomes - threadlike structures that carry genetic information from cell to cell - in the human genome to be sequenced.
The Zambian psychedelic rock band zamrock WITCH that mesmerised audiences in the 1970s are back with a new album after 40 years. The revival of the band is led by its 71-year old lead vocalist Emmanuel "Jagari" Chanda, who wants to make the little known Zamrock music genre famous in the rest of the world. Interest for Zamrock rose in the 2010s in the West, thanks to the internet and crate-digging producers as Los Angeles-based Now-Again Records re-released several albums of WITCH and other Zamrock artists.
Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr, the two living members of The Beatles, have reunited for a cover of their 1970 hit "Let It Be" on country singer Dolly Parton's coming rock album. Parton released the single on Friday ahead of the November debut of her album "Rockstar. " McCartney sang and played piano while Starr played drums on the recording. Two other music luminaries joined the collaboration, Parton said. Peter Frampton played guitar and Mick Fleetwood of Fleetwood Mac did percussion.
Inspired by her passion for the furry animal, Naeema Mea'bed opened the "MEOW Cat Cafe" in the Gaza Strip this week, hoping to bring cat lovers some joy, while boosting awareness over pet raising, which has become increasingly popular in the region. The cafe, the first of its kind in Gaza, is entirely cat-themed, with mirrors and flower vases, as well as posters of the 14 resident cats that are available for guests, adults or children, to play with.
Archaeologists have discovered a small bedroom in a Roman villa near Pompeii that was almost certainly used by slaves, throwing light on their lowly status in the ancient world, the culture ministry said on Sunday. The room was found at the Civita Giuliana villa, some 600 metres (2,000 ft) north of the walls of Pompeii, which was wiped out by a volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius nearly 2,000 years ago.It contained two beds, only one of which had a mattress, two small cabinets and a series of urns and ceramic containers, in which the remains of two mice and a rat were found.
A drag show in the Lebanese capital Beirut was cut short late on Wednesday by an angry crowd of conservative Christians screaming homophobic chants, according to a Reuters witness and attendees. The show, hosted by two Lebanese drag artists known as Latiza Bombe and Emma Gration, was hosted at a bar in Beirut known to be a safe space for LGBT individuals. But shortly after it started, the two hosts, wearing black leotards and in full makeup and wigs, ended the show early after being alerted that angry men were approaching the venue.
Israel on Wednesday said it will boost natural gas production from its offshore Tamar field and increase exports to Egypt, which is contending with rising demand and falling output. Exports to Egypt will be increased by an additional 38. 7 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas over 11 years, the ministry said, and production from Tamar will grow by 60%, or 6 bcm annually, from 2026. "This step will increase the state's revenue and strengthen diplomatic ties between Israel and Egypt," Israel's Energy Minister Israel Katz said.

The head of a Dubai-based conglomerate on Wednesday said Afghanistan's Taliban authorities had stopped around 100 women from travelling to the United Arab Emirates where he was to sponsor their university education. Khalaf Ahmad Al Habtoor, founding chairman of Al Habtoor Group, said in a video posted on X social media platform, formerly known as Twitter, that he had planned to sponsor the female students to attend university and a plane he had paid for had been due to fly them to the UAE on Wednesday morning."Taliban government refused to allow the girls who were coming to study here – a hundred girls sponsored by me - they refused them to board the plane and already we have paid for the aircraft, we have organised everything for them here, accommodation, education, transportation security," he said in the video.
Two crew members died and another was injured when an Air Force helicopter crashed in Lebanon during a training exercise, the army said in a statement on Wednesday. Lebanon's caretaker Prime Minister Najib Mikati reached out to Army Chief General Joseph Aoun for details concerning the helicopter crash, according to a statement from his office on Wednesday.
Traffic through the Suez Canal has resumed normally, the canal authority said on Wednesday, hours after a collision of two vessels temporarily caused delays."Slight contact" was made after liquefied natural gas (LNG) carrier BW Lesmes made a sudden stop due to a technical failure that coincided with a strong current that drove oil tanker Burri towards it, authority chairman Osama Rabie said in an earlier statement on Wednesday.The canal authority responded by sending tugboats to move both ships, he said.Singapore-flagged BW Lesmes was successfully towed outside of the waterway, Rabie said, while Cayman Islands-flagged Burri was at the Suez anchorage, according to ship tracker MarineTraffic.
India's space agency on Monday released images its spacecraft took of the far side of the moon as it headed for an attempted landing on the lunar south pole, just days after the failure of a Russian lander. The Indian Space Research Organisation's (ISRO) Chandrayaan-3 spacecraft had been in a race with Russia to be the first to land on the lunar south pole, a region whose shadowed craters are thought to contain water ice that could support a future moon settlement.As news of the failure of Russia's Luna-25 mission broke on Sunday, ISRO said that Chandrayaan-3 was on course to land on Aug. 23.All systems on the spacecraft are working "perfectly" and no contingencies are anticipated on the landing day, the space agency said on Monday.
Russia's first moonshot in nearly half a century has failed after its Luna-25 spacecraft spun out of control and smashed into the moon.It was Russia's first moon mission since the Soviet Union's Luna-24 returned with samples from the moon in 1976. A Soyuz 2.1 rocket carrying the Luna-25 craft blasted off from the Vostochny cosmodrome, 3,450 miles (5,550 km) east of Moscow, at 2:11 a.m. Moscow time on Aug. 11. The lander was boosted out of Earth's orbit toward the moon a little over an hour later. It entered the moon's orbit on Aug. 16 and was due to attempt a soft landing on Monday.
North Korea tried and failed for a second time to launch a spy satellite, state media said, vowing to make a third attempt in October. The Malligyong-1 spy satellite was launched Thursday local time on the newly developed Chollima-1 rocket, whose first- and second-stage flights were normal, the official Korean Central News Agency reported. It said the launch failed “due to an error in the emergency blasting system during the third-stage flight. ” The North Korean space agency said there would be a third launch attempt in October after it assessed why the Thursday launch failed. “The cause of the relevant accident is not a big problem in aspect of the reliability of cascade engines and the system,” it said, according to the KCNA report.

Wagner boss Yevgeny Prigozhin was on board a plane that crashed north of Moscow killing all 10 passengers on board, Russia's Civil Aviation Authority has said. There has been no comment from the Kremlin or Russia's defence ministry as Prigozhin's death is yet to be officially confirmed. The crash comes two months after the Wagner mercenary boss led a short-lived munity against Russia's military top brass. Prigozhin was described at the time by Russian President Vladimir Putin as a "traitor". The mercenary boss used to be Mr Putin's chef and was formerly a close confidant of the Russian leader. Mr Putin has spoken publicly for the first time since the crash after delivering a speech at the BRICS summit - but he did not mention Prigozhin.
Dr Susan Gilby, who joined Hospital  after Letby was arrested, tells Sky News there is "certainly a possibility" that management failures to deal with complaints  of harassment and victimisation about the nurse led to lives being needlessly lost.The former boss of the hospital where Lucy Letby killed seven babies says she fears it is "more likely than not" that failures of management to deal with complaints about the nurse led to lives being lost needlessly.Dr Susan Gilby joined the Countess of Chester Hospital as medical director and deputy chief executive in August 2018, a few weeks after Letby was arrested.
Michael Hillier and Rachel Fulstow  , a couple plotted the murder of Liam Smith over a 10-month period  over Tinder date rape claim. The father-of-two was gunned down outside his home in Wigan. Michael Hillier tracked down Liam Smith and waited outside his home in Wigan for nearly 10 hours before the attack. The 39-year-old plotted the assault over a 10-month period with his then girlfriend Rachel Fulstow, 37, who had claimed 38-year-old Mr Smith had raped her after a Tinder date. Hillier, from Sheffield, has been sentenced to life in prison with a minimum of 33 years in jail after being found unanimously guilty of murder following a six-week trial at Minshull Street Crown Court in Manchester.
A group of trading nations known as BRICS, which is hoping to rival the G7, is set to grow in size after inviting six new countries to join - including Iran and Saudi Arabia. .  until now, comprised of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa - announced the proposed expansion at the group's three-day summit in Johannesburg.The bloc has invited Saudi Arabia, Iran, Ethiopia, Egypt, Argentina and the United Arab Emirates to join. They will be formally admitted on 1 January 2024. BRICS, founded in 2009, hopes to champion 'the global South' and serve as a counterweight to the politically dominant G7 nations. The G7 consists of the UK, US, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and Germany.
The number of new asylum claims, as well as the backlog of people waiting for an initial decision, have both jumped up. Legal migration of workers and students has also risen despite the government promising in 2019 to lower the number of people entering the UK.The backlog of asylum claims in the UK has hit a new record high, according to Home Office figures.A total of 175,457 people were waiting for an initial decision on an asylum application in the UK at the end of June 2023, up 44% at the end of June 2022 and the highest figure since current records began in 2010.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
A high school in Selma, Alabama, won a grant to fund a field trip to a "queer heritage site" and money to support LGBTQ literature for students. The award came from the non-profit "It Gets Better Project," which focuses on "empowering LGBTQ+ youth through school-based projects in all 50 states. "  "Amid ongoing efforts to silence or stigmatize discussion about LGBTQ+ identity in the classroom, it's more important than ever to ensure that LGBTQ+ students feel that they are welcomed, accepted and able to be their full selves at school," Brian Wenke, Executive Director of the It Gets Better Project said, according to 1819 News.
Washington Post contributing columnist and National Review editor Ramesh Ponnuru called out the media and fact-checkers over the Democratic Party abortion stance until birth.   He noted a recent interview Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis did with NBC's Dasha Burns, during which he said a lot of the left supports abortion up until birth. "There’s no indication of Democrats pushing for that," Burns responded. She was criticized over her defense of Democrats on X, formerly known as Twitter. Ponnuru wrote, "News outlets from the Associated Press to CBS to The Post have offered similar ‘corrections’ when Republicans have said that Democrats favor keeping abortion legal even late in pregnancy. "
Social media users mocked and attacked President Biden for his claim that he had been "working out" instead of learning about a plane crash in Russia Wednesday. Yevgeny Prigozhin, the founder of Russia's Wagner Group who challenged the rule of Vladimir Putin just months ago, was killed in a plane crash that left 10 people dead outside of Moscow, state media reported. Reporters caught up with Biden in Lake Tahoe to get his comments on the matter."I don’t know for a fact what happened, but I am not surprised. There is not much that happens in Russia with Putin not behind, but I don't know enough to know the answer. I've been working out for the last hour and a half," Biden said.
Tracy Shannon believes her ex-husband lost himself in "fetish behavior," which began with what she described as "cross-dressing. " Shannon discovered the behavior after she had her first child. A Christian mom says that transgender ideology tore her family apart after her husband transitioned to become a woman. "There were some rather disturbing things that did happen in those years," Shannon said. She recalled her husband taking her lingerie on weekends and becoming visibly aroused while shaving his legs. "There were some incidents of cross-dressing in the marriage that would come up. It didn't seem extremely out of control. We would go to counseling, and he'd say he'd never do it again. So I believed him several times," she said.
Republican presidential candidate and former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley emphatically rejected allowing biological males in girls’ locker rooms during the first Republican presidential primary debate on Fox News Wednesday. Haley was asked about her previous statement that biological boys playing in girls' sports is the "women’s rights issue of our time. " "As a parent, the one thing you want is for your child to have a better life than you did," Haley began, taking the time to also address other educational issues. "And we can talk about all of these things and there’s a lot of crazy woke things happening in schools, but we've gotta get these kids reading. If a child can't read by third grade, they're four times less likely to graduate high school. So we need to make sure we bring in reading remediation all over this country. We need transparency in the classroom because parents should never have to wonder what’s being said or taught to their children in the classroom.
A clinical transgender psychologist, is sounding the alarm on the approach many of her colleagues have taken in recent years regarding medical and social treatment for gender dysphoria among children and teens in the United States and faced emotional blackmailing. Erica Anderson told Fox News Digital that health professionals need to explore all the factors related to what is going on with a child and "not to dissuade them of their assertive gender, but to understand how other things might be related," including mental health issues like a history of abuse, developmental problems, anxiety or depression. Anderson has practiced as both a pediatric and adult psychologist for over four decades and has also worked in the healthcare field, most recently in behavioral pediatrics at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF), where she primarily worked in pediatric endocrinology at the Adolescent Gender Center.
After an Afghan asylum seeker in Germany admitted to raping and assaulting numerous girls over the course of three years, a german judge ruled  that the migrant would not get any jail time. Instead, he would receive probation and sensitivity training, Fox News Digital can confirm. Mohammad, 23, came to Germany from Afghanistan in 2015. He graduated from high school, and maintained a job until he was arrested in January 2023 for assaulting girls from 2019-2022, at least one who was as young as 16. A rape victim from 2019 is still in therapy today, according to a German publication Bild. The ruling of probation and anti-aggression training set off a fire in the German press, with Bold writing, "He rapes 16-year-olds and gets released! " The report proceeded to mention how the judge and defense attorneys cited the juvenile as an example of an integrated refugee in German culture, citing his educational background and hobby of playing in the football club.
Vivek Ramaswamy, the Ohio-born entrepreneur , came across like a "blunt-force instrument" during the Fox News Republican Debate on Wednesday, a former top Bush aide told the network after the event. Ramaswamy made waves during the forum, routinely clashing with several other candidates, most notably former Vice President Mike Pence as the two traded barbs about age and governing experience. Ari Fleischer, a former White House spokesman for then-President George W. Bush, said he was impressed by Ramaswamy's tact. "I thought [Florida Gov. Ron] DeSantis was real good. Second place to me was Vivek Ramaswamy," he said on "Hannity. "
911 calls in Seattle could soon be answered by unarmed "crisis responders" instead of police officers through a new "alternate response team" spearheaded by a Democratic council member. Councilwoman Lisa Hebold announced on Friday that they are beginning to hire the first six new positions for a new pilot program to provide for unarmed "crisis responders" to respond to certain emergency calls. "Well, you know, usually I'm complaining about how delayed we are and how frustrated I am that we're not meeting our benchmarks for developing this program. But today I'm really, really happy to report that the city is hiring for the six positions for its first pilot alternate response team. It’s going to be a way for 911 operators to dispatch calls to somebody other than police, somebody other than fire, a crisis responder who is unarmed," said Herbold.
A Canadian professor who specializes in "fat studies" claimed that aiming for an obesity-free future was "fatphobic" and blasted the "biopolitics" agenda as an attack against fat people. Fady Shanouda is an associate professor at the Feminist Institute of Social Transformation at Carleton University in Canada. Shanouda "draws on feminist new materialism" to examine the intersections between "fat studies, "colonialism, racism…, and queer- and transphobia. " The Critical Disability Studies scholar wrote that it was "fatphobic" to have a public health conversation and to tamp down on obesity, according to a Monday article in The Conversation.
Viral sensation Oliver Anthony was given a boost by conservative social media influencers who helped push "Rich Men North of Richmond" atop the cultural zeitgeist. a prominent country music journalist believes the song was going to explode under its own volition either way. "I've definitely never seen something on the scale of virality that Oliver Anthony has experienced," Kyle "Trigger" Coroneos told Fox News Digital. Coroneos, who founded Saving Country Music in 2008 to help promote independent musicians, has seen other "earnest acoustic songwriters" go viral after posting videos, sometimes even piling up millions of views, but the success of the "Rich Men North of Richmond" singer blows away other artists Coroneos has covered.
According to multiple German outlets, two childcare locations in North Rhine-Westphalia introduced plans for designated spaces where children may engage in sexual games as part of their “sexual exploration. ”Reports of daycares in Germany implementing “sexual exploration rooms” for young children have ignited a wave of controversy and concerns among parents.  One daycare in Rheinberg reportedly encourages children to participate in “doctor games” where they can “explore” each other’s bodies. Children are told to pick one of their peers they want to “explore” and to “carefully” examine their bodies. A similar initiative was introduced in a daycare center in Hanover and was previously reported by the German newspaper Bild earlier this year. In that case, the daycare informed parents about the “doctor games. ”
Shouts of "leave our kids alone ! " filled downtown Los Angeles streets Tuesday as approximately 200 protesters supporting parental rights in education measures – including the right to be informed about their child's gender selection – marched toward Unified School District's offices from city hall. Police set up "skirmish lines" to keep demonstrators from clashing with pro-LGBTQ+ activists outside LAUSD's offices, as some activists are arrested in downtown. police eventually declared the assembly "unlawful" after some parental rights demonstrators allegedly attempted to "push counter-protesters back. " Three were arrested, CBS Los Angeles reported.
A video of the incident posted to social media by Paul Leavitt shows the unidentified man begin reading an excerpt from the graphic novel "Flamer" by Mike Curato, in which a character asks, "Who wants my hot wiener? " One Fort Worth Independent School District board member abruptly slams down her gavel and calls for security. A man was forcibly removed by security at a Texas school board meeting Tuesday night as he attempted to read an LGBTQ graphic novel from the podium.  As the man begins reading from the following page, an officer walks across the room, where he is met by two other security personnel. The three officers surround the man who holds onto the microphone and continues to read. People in the audience began shouting over one another and the board member slams her gavel repeatedly.
An Asian-American candidate for the Saint Paul, Minnesota, reparations commission has withdrawn her name after Black community leaders protested her hiring as disrespect . The protestors claim she did not understand African Americans' "lived experience" in the city. On Tuesday, Black community leaders led a chant outside of Saint Paul's City Hall condemning the City Council's decision to hire a non-African American policy aide to staff the reparations commission. Trahern Crews, a leader of the Saint Paul's reparation movement, insisted the protest was "not about the person. " "It's just that we need somebody who has the lived experience, knowledge of reparations, knowledge of the racial wealth gap and how it impacts the descendants of slavery who reside in St. Paul," Crews told Star Tribune.
Walsh, who served as global chief brand officer and managing director of DMG Media’s U. S. operations (stylized as dmg media), will become managing director of external relations for Bilt Rewards, a company that allows Americans to be rewarded for paying their rent. Influential Daily Mail executive Sean Walsh is stepping down after accepting a high-level position at Bilt Rewards. "These past ten years have been an extraordinary and life-changing journey that I will be forever grateful for," Walsh said. "I'm very proud to have represented the brands of dmg media across the globe and I leave with sincere gratitude and respect for my colleagues, our dedicated readers and our commercial and external partners. "
Gold Star mom Paula Knauss Selph put the Biden administration's foreign policy on blast , two years after 13 U. S. service members – including her son Army Staff Sgt. Ryan Knauss – were killed during the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. "Is the administration current going to be responsible for what happened in Afghanistan? We have yet to see anyone that has been responsible for it…" she told "Fox & Friends First" co-hosts Todd Piro and Carley Shimkus, Wednesday. "Where in America are we right now? Where in this world are we right now with our power that we once held as the strength among the nations? We are considered weaker now than ever. Who will stand up and show better foreign policy at this time? "
Country music sensation Oliver Anthony released a new video for his song  'Brink of the next world war',  on Tuesday. Anthony, a red-bearded Virginia farmer and musician, and dog owner, rose from relative obscurity to ranking #1 on Billboard Hot 100 for a song he recorded in the American wilderness, "Rich Men North of Richmond. " Anthony’s new single is already closing in on nearly one million views on YouTube alone, as the singer is estimated to be making around "$40,000 a day from sales and streams of his music, according to the trade journal Hits. " Last week, Anthony said he had "brushed off" $8 million offers from "people in the music industry. " Country music sensation Oliver Anthony released a new video for his song, "I Want To Go Home," on Tuesday.
Biden briefly visited the area on Monday after historic wildfires ravaged the land and took the lives of over 110 people. More than 800 people, including children, remain missing. CNN's chief climate correspondent Tuesday praised President Biden as the "empathizer-in-chief" who said all "the right things" on his trip to Maui, Hawaii. Although Biden’s overall response to the wildfires, including the visit, has been criticized, CNN's Bill Weir praised each step, particularly for his attempt to relate to Maui citizens with personal stories. "He did serve as empathizer-in-chief after five days of being mostly silent on the issue publicly, but the governor said he was working behind the scenes to assure first responders that the feds had their back on this.
Artificial intelligence (AI) generated deep fakes are likely to have a "massive" impact on voters in future elections and there isn't much that can be done right now to stop it, according to an AI advisor for the United Nations (UN). Speaking with Fox News Digital, Neil Sahota said his sources warned the growing use of deep fake advertisements may very well be "the greatest threat to democracy. " "A lot of people—and I think those in the media too, are calling the 2024 election 'the deep fake election' that is probably going to be marred by tons and tons of deep fakes," Sahota said. "Not much can be done right now to stop any of that. " While the UN and various other organizations and corporations are working quickly to roll out software that can detect deep fakes, Sahota noted that common verification tools, such as watermarks, are relatively easy to circumvent in their current iterations.

An asylum seeker smashed an immigration office in Germany Monday as the country faces mounting claims from refugees. Authorities said a 29-year-old asylum seeker from Cameroon, a country in Central Africa, grabbed a metal barrier outside an office in Magdeburg and smashed nearly all the windows. The perpetrator was arrested shortly after, and authorities reportedly began criminal proceedings. Magdeburg is a central German city on the Elbe River. According to Bild, none of the employees were injured. However, many were terrified.
An airline passenger credited with saving a man's life mid-flight from a fentanyl overdose is urging Narcan to be made available on all planes. Drew Ashley and his father, who run a First Aid, CPR and AED training company, were on a Florida-bound Southwest Airlines flight when a passenger began showing signs of an overdose. "I was sitting in the row behind him, my father was sitting right next to him," Ashley told "America's Newsroom" Tuesday. "I was asleep, and my father started yelling my name as he pulled him to the aisle… we have our own company, the Life Saviours… so we knew what to do, the signs to see for an overdose. Just knowing the situation, he was going into respiratory arrest with the overdose. We were just doing what we had to do. Keep getting him air and keeping him alive. "

Senate Homeland Security Committee member Ron Johnson, R-Wis. , claimed new reporting about then-Vice President Joe Biden's role in the ouster of a Ukrainian prosecutor investigating an energy company on which his son sat on the board showed the current president to be "totally responsive" to his son. Johnson said new reporting called into question whether Biden's widely-circulated boast about encouraging a Ukrainian prosecutor's ouster was actually in line with U. S. policy at the time. In 2018 remarks before the Council on Foreign Relations, Biden spoke of dangling $1 billion in U. S. loan guarantees to Ukraine contingent on having prosecutor Viktor Shokin fired.

Republican presidential candidate Sen. Tim Scott, S. C. , doubled down on his criticism of Florida's Black history curriculum, suggesting his GOP rival Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Vice President Kamala Harris are actually aligned on the issue in an interview with Fox News Digital. Last month, Vice President Kamala Harris spearheaded attacks against the Sunshine State's new education guidance, saying it replaces "history with lies" and that students would be "told that enslaved people benefited from slavery. " In reality, the thorough curriculum, which was co-authored by a Black professor, details harsh conditions slaves endured and also explains that "slaves developed skills which, in some instances, could be applied for their personal benefit" both while enslaved and when they became free.
CNN senior legal analyst Elie Honig said he is "perplexed" at the way that the Department of Justice has conducted the Hunter Biden probe, claiming it has made "a real mess" and will have to deal with the "consequences. " "The Lead" host Erica Hill agreed, adding that the DOJ risks losing the "public trust" over how it has handled the probe. The segment aired in the afternoon, with Hill bringing up a recent New York Times article detailing how now-special counsel David Weiss was looking to drop the case against Hunter Biden earlier this year, until IRS whistleblowers came forward to allege misconduct. Now that Weiss has been named special counsel in the probe, and is spearheading the investigation, Hill remarked to Honig that it is "quite the evolution" in the case and suggested that the behavior of the DOJ is unusual.
Oliver Anthony, the rising star behind the viral hit "Rich Men North of Richmond," is reportedly making $40,000 a day thanks to his music. The now-iconic red-bearded Virginia farmer and musician rose from relative obscurity to ranking #1 on Billboard Hot 100 for a song he recorded while out in the American wilderness. The song's video, posted on August 8, has already reached over 33 million views on YouTube and has made headlines in news outlets across the political spectrum. The video's description said the intent behind the song was to "give hope to the working class and your average hard working young man who may have lost hope in the grind of trying to get by" and it indeed has become widely viewed as a blue-collar anthem across the United States. 
GOP presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy in an interview with Fox News clarified remarks he gave to The Atlantic that some critics say alluded to the possibility that federal agents were involved in the 9/11 terrorist attacks. "I think it is legitimate to say how many police, how many federal agents, were on the planes that hit the Twin Towers. Maybe the answer is zero. It probably is zero for all I know, right? I have no reason to think it was anything other than zero," Ramaswamy told the outlet in released audio. "But if we're doing a comprehensive assessment of what happened on 9/11, we have a 9/11 commission, absolutely that should be an answer the public knows the answer to. " CNN’s Kaitlan Collins pushed Ramaswamy about his remarks on Monday asking him if the quote was wrong.
President Biden involvement in his son Hunter’s business dealings "deserves a serious investigation," Washington Post columnist Henry Olsen wrote on Tuesday. In his latest column, Olsen wrote that he originally "long dismissed" stories regarding Hunter Biden, but "recent revelations" changed his mind. "There’s more than enough evidence to merit a thorough investigation of President Biden’s involvement in his son’s business dealings," Olsen argued. Olsen shared that recent testimony from former Hunter Biden business associate Devon Archer as well as claims that Biden used different aliases while dealing with Ukrainian policy merits some suspicion. Though these allegations don't prove that the president did anything illegal, he noted these claims suggest Biden "was aware of Hunter’s dealings and wanted to keep his son in the loop. "
Former Barack Obama suggested on "America’s Newsroom" that President Biden’s comparing a kitchen fire to the historic Maui wildfires to relate to victims depicts "empathy" and connects with voters. "Now, Joe Biden went to Hawaii, and I don't believe based on the reporting, he took a single question, but he did try and relate to those there from a kitchen fire at his house 15 years ago. Watch how this one," Fox News host Bill Hemmer said before showing a clip of Biden’s comments. "I don't want to compare difficulties, but we have a little sense, Jill and I, of what it was like to lose a home," Biden said. "Years ago, now, 15 years, I was in Washington doing ‘Meet the press’… Lightning struck at home on a little lake outside the home, not a lake a big pond. It hit the wire and came up underneath our home, into the…air condition ducts. "
Ivy Snitzer, 20-year-old acting student, was cast as Paltrow's body double in the 2001 film "Shallow Hal," which starred Paltrow alongside Jack Black and Jason Alexander talked about her eating disorders. In the film, Paltrow played Rosemary, a 300-pound woman with whom Black's character falls in love after being hypnotized to only see people's inner beauty. Schnitzer's role was having her body filmed for close ups of Rosemary's arms, torso and thighs, while Paltrow wore a fat suit for scenes that featured the character's face.
Some Lahaina residents on Maui blasted President Biden's comments during his visit to the island Monday after deadly wildfires left a trail of devastation , with one resident labeling some of his language as "tone-deaf" and another writing off the visit as a "multimillion-dollar photo-op" during their Tuesday appearance. " Among Biden's comments under scrutiny, he compared the ravaging flames to a fire that started at his home in Delaware 15 years ago, retelling a story in which he said the fire "destroyed a significant portion" of his residence. "I don't want to compare difficulties, but we have a little sense, Jill and I, of what it was like to lose a home," Biden said.g pond. It hit the wire and came up underneath our home into the … air condition ducts. "
A California director of a gender clinic and medical school professor claimed there are "infinite" gender identities, including one called a "gender Tootsie Roll pop. " For decades, Dr. Diane Ehrensaft has been one of the most prominent voices pushing gender ideology in the medical and psychology field. She is the director of mental health and chief psychologist at the University of California-San Francisco (UCSF) Benioff Children's Hospital gender development center. She is also a professor at UCSF School of Medicine. Ehrensaft discussed in a slide deck on gender ideology – reviewed by Fox News – a "gender Tootsie Roll pop" identity. The self-identified feminist referred to this agenda as "The New Gender Wars," while previously she has said it was a "Gender Revolution. "
 While discussing his lengthy New Yorker feature on Musk in a CNN appearance, Farrow said a common sentiment among his peers was that Musk does "significant work" that is likely a "a net positive for all of us. " Journalist Ronan Farrow suggested Tuesday that Elon Musk's use of ketamine might contribute to his "erratic" behavior and questioned the amount of power the billionaire tech mogul has."But the Twitter thing is different, right? And we are seeing in these recent years that Elon Musk has behaved erratically at times, that the biographical facts that you mentioned that led to him at times talking about his loneliness, his sadness, the fact that there have been questions about his psychopharmacology and public reports about the Tesla board being worried about his Ambien use," he said before host Poppy Harlow noted his piece mentioned Musk's ketamine use.
During a "CBS Mornings" interview, NYC  Mayor Eric Adams pleaded with President Joe Biden to declare a "state of emergency" to help the city deal with a massive migrant surge. Adams explained that thousands of new migrants to the city haven't been able to find work due to federal laws that require a time period that asylum seekers must wait before seeking jobs. This means nearly 100,000 migrants in the city could be relying on the city government’s aid rather than being able to support themselves for "years" to come.CBS prefaced its sit-down with Adams by noting that the mayor’s office has recorded providing "’shelter and care’ for over 100,000 asylum seekers" since last spring. The segment also mentioned a new facility in Randall’s Island, New York which provides housing, food and other basic amenities for "up to 3000 people."
The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) put out a statement in support of actor Bradley Cooper after he was accused of indulging in anti semitic tropes with his portrayal of Leonard Bernstein in an upcoming biopic of jewface. "Throughout history, Jews were often portrayed in anti semitic films and propaganda as evil caricatures with large, hooked noses," the ADL wrote in a statement to TMZ. "This film, which is a biopic on the legendary conductor Leonard Bernstein, is not that. " A number of accounts, identified by NBC News in a recent story headlined, "Bradley Cooper accused of ‘Jewface’ over prosthetic nose in Leonard Bernstein biopic ‘Maestro,’" based their attacks on speculation that Cooper was using a "prosthetic nose". 
A preschool in England has removed a book from their curriculum after children were exposed to illustrations of men kissing in bondage and transgender people with surgery scars. Parents voiced their frustrations after it was revealed that kids as young as four had been shown the book "Grandad's Pride," written by award-winning author Harry Woodgate. One illustration from the book, which has a 4+ reading age, shows transgender men with markings from breast augmentation or removal surgery, commonly referred to as "top surgery. " Another illustration shows two men who are partially naked in leather bondage gear. One man has a leather cod-piece wound against his crotch and garters strapped down his thighs. Both men in the image passionately kiss.
Orange Unified School District board members in california will vote in early September on a proposal to inform parents when their children identify as transgender. The school district says it is considering the policy in the name of protecting the "fundamental rights" of parents and guardians to be involved and informed about their children’s lives. The LA Times shared a copy of the school’s proposal, which laid out the defined policies. "The Orange Unified School District Board of Education strives to foster ongoing communications between the District and parent(s)/guardian(s)," the document said. "To that end, the Board of Education supports the fundamental rights of parent(s)/guardian(s) to be informed of and involved in all aspects of their pupil’s education to promote the best outcomes. "
Actor and commentator George Takei is best known for his portrayal of Mr. Sulu in the television and film franchise "Star Trek. " Star Trek actor George Takei attempted to draw parallels between the internment of Japanese-American citizens during World War II and current legislation against transgender operations on minors. In more recent years, he found new fame as a liberal commentator and activist. "Despite decades of advocacy for LGBTQ+ rights, the troubling pattern of scapegoating persists," the actor wrote in a social media post featuring an internment camp and a transgender activist sign. "As someone who experienced forced relocation as a child, the sense of déjà vu is deeply unsettling. It's crucial that we learn from history, push for change, and use our votes to secure a better future. "
Mask mandates are making a return to Lionsgate’s Santa Monica, California, office, according to a memo sent to employees on Monday. In the email provided to Fox News Digital, Sommer McElroy, Response Manager for Lionsgate/Starz, stated that "effective immediately" masks will be required on certain floors in their Santa Monica offices "until further notice. " According to Deadline Hollywood, this encompasses "nearly half of the company’s employees at its flagship office at 2700 Colorado Ave. in Santa Monica. " "Employees must wear a medical grade face covering (surgical mask, KN95 or N95) when indoors except when alone in an office with the door closed, actively eating, actively drinking at their desk or workstation, or if they are the only individual present in a large open workspace," McElroy said.
Liberal comedian Bill Maher pled to Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy that his rapping on the campaign trail has to stop. In recent weeks, Ramaswamy has embraced his roots of "Da Vek," his college-era alter ego that would perform rap to his classmates at Harvard and Yale. The GOP hopeful broke into freestyle rapping during an appearance last month on "Fox & Friends" and he went viral earlier this month at the Iowa State Fair for performing Eminem's hit song "Lose Yourself. " On Sunday's installment of the "Club Random" podcast, Maher brought up the term "Renaissance man," something he described as someone "doing everything. "
 According to the court order, U. S. District Judge Sarah Geraghty ruled that state officials who passed the law restricting transgender surgeries are "enjoined" from enforcing the prohibition on prescribing hormone therapy to minors.A federal judge on Sunday temporarily blocked a part of a new Georgia law that bans most gender surgeries. Furthermore, Geraghty’s order found that it is "substantially likely" that the law could permanently be struck as unconstitutional pending a decision on the merits of the case.
Republican Texas State Rep. Brian Harrison pushed back and bashes on "woke, ultra-liberal Marxist socialists" in taxpayer-funded public institutions, who he claims are working to indoctrinate children, during an interview with Fox News Digital. "I think people are fed up of not just having this ultra-liberal extremist, Marxist, socialist ideology forced upon them and forced on their kids," Harrison said. "They're sick and tired of having to be the ones that pay for it themselves through their hard-earned tax dollars. "  "They don't want their property tax money or their sales tax money or their school tax dollars going to fund some woke, ultra-liberal Marxist socialist to indoctrinate their children," he added.
Kamala Harris agreed with the premise of a question she got in an interview with the outlet published on Monday, according to Politico Playbook. "I think that that is the case ,It’s what it is. Vice President Kamala Harris told Politico that she think she gets more media scrutiny than past vice presidents in a new interview. I'm not going to sit here and say, ‘Oh, you know, it’s not fair,’ because, you know, I am not new to these things," she said in response to a question about "whether she faces more media scrutiny than her predecessors as VP. " In Playbook's write-up of the Harris interview, the authors suggested criticism of the vice president was not typical in past administrations.
A Texas county attorney is opening up on her decision to leave the Democrat Party and switched to  GOP , fears she would be called a "traitor" due to her Hispanic heritage and abandoning party . Kleberg County, Texas Attorney Kira Talip Sanchez joined "Fox & Friends" Monday after announcing she was switching to the Republican Party, citing the border crisis as a key issue in her decision."In recent years, I feel like my former party has moved further left and it's no longer aligned with my values," Talip told the show.
English singer-songwriter Billy Bragg released his own pro-union song responding to Oliver Anthony's hit "Rich Men North of Richmond" that became touted as a blue-collar anthem by conservatives after recently going viral. Bragg's clap back song titled "Rich Men Earning North of a Million" took a pro-union stance to address the struggles of "working folk," complete with a push for free healthcare and a diss of divisive culture wars. "If you’re selling your soul, working all day. Overtime hours for bulls--- pay. Nothing is gonna change if all you do is wish you could wake up and it not be true," Bragg sings in the first verse.

SUNY Buffalo State University has been accused of discriminating against 44 migrants housed in campus dormitories after the school announced it would evict its visitors before students return to class on Tuesday. In May, Buffalo State agreed to let migrants stay in their dorms because the nearby Jericho Road Vive Shelter was over capacity and could no longer adequately support the influx. Jericho Roads’ founder and CEO, Dr. Myron Glick, claimed that school officials recently informed him that Buffalo State had decided against extending the agreement with his organization because of concerns from parents over student safety. Parents allegedly spoke out after two migrants were charged with sex crimes at Cheektowaga hotels, just ten miles from the campus.

Members of Congress from New York are demanding answers from the state's Democrat governor, Kathy Hochul, following a report released by PDE  on millions of dollars of funding flowing into America’s K-12 classrooms. "Unfortunately, this investigation discovered 12 school systems in our own state have received money from the CCP," the letter reads. "This includes the New York City Department of Education, which received $375,575. 00 in CCP-connected funding. Considering China’s adversarial relationship with the United States, this is deeply problematic and presents a national security concern for our constituents and state. " PDE, a grassroots organization dedicated to fighting indoctrination in the classroom, released its "Little Red Classrooms" report last month that cited evidence linking the Chinese Communist Party to American K-12 schools, which found that students are subjected to Chinese propaganda, language and culture programming through state-funded programs.
CNN legal analyst Elie Honig criticized the Department of Justice and Special Cousel David Weiss on Monday and said they made an "unholy mess" of the Hunter Biden investigation. During an appearance on "CNN This Morning," host Poppy Harlow cited reporting from the New York Times that said Weis was initially willing to forgo any charges against the president's son. The reporting also said that Weis changed his position after a "pair of I. R. S. officials on the case accused the Justice Department of hamstringing the investigation. " "The takeaway is that the DOJ has made an unholy mess of this whole Hunter Biden situation," Honig said. "I fault David Weiss, who I’ve spoken positively about on this show, given his long service as a U. S. attorney. "
Viral sensation Oliver Anthony said he does not believe the United States will last more than another generation if the country continues along its current trajectory. On Saturday, Anthony performed in front of thousands of fans in Moyock, North Carolina, as part of a free concert. Following the show, the "Rich Men North of Virginia" singer-songwriter said that while he feels appreciation from people with whom the song resonated, he would rather people appreciate each other and their individual struggles. He said that, hopefully, people can find the energy he put into the song and manifest it in their personal lives.
Austin, Texas, residents are feeling the aftershocks of the "defund the police" movement as officers shortages reportedly are leaving 911 callers on hold and crime criples to continues to spiral out of control. Thomas Villarreal, president of the Austin Police Association, blamed the city council for neglecting local law enforcement, telling "Fox & Friends" on Monday that the alleged missteps have concocted a larger problem. "We just continue to have a city council that doesn't show its police officers that [it] cares about them," he said.
A CNN analyst claimed Republicans mastered "verbal jiu-jitsu" by rebranding terms such as "woke," "liberal," "social justice warrior" and even critical race theory in order to combat Democratic talking points and ideology. CNN senior writer John Blake penned the piece headlined, "How conservatives use ‘verbal jiu-jitsu’ to turn liberals’ language against them," that detailed claims that creative language has helped the GOP thrive. "Republicans are masters of verbal jiu-jitsu. It’s a form of linguistic combat in which the practitioner takes a political phrase or concept popularized by their opponent and gradually turns into an unusable slur. Like the Japanese martial art known as jiu-jitsu, its devotees avoid taking opposing arguments head on and instead redirect their opponents’ momentum to beat them," Blake wrote before citing the word "woke" as a key example of his theory.
Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa. , is being compared to the main character of the hit show "Breaking Bad" after he shaved off his goatee and grew a mustache. "Lost a bet with Karl," Fetterman wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter, Saturday. Karl is the name of Fetterman's 13-year-old son. Fetterman's wife, Gisele Barreto Fetterman, shared a screenshot of a text conversation with the senator: "OMG WHY," she wrote, later texting that she was "into it. "When asked by an X user what game Fetterman was betting on with his son, his wife said it was "[c]hess, always chess. " Political commentators were divided on Fetterman's new choice of facial hair.
Legendary rock band Queen's 1978 classic "Fat Bottomed Girls" has become cancel culture's latest victim after the song was dropped from the band's new greatest hits collection for younger listeners that debuted on the audio platform Yoto. Though moving songs to the platform aims to introduce Queen to kids, some are critical of the decision to omit the song from the track list, blasting the move as "woke" or "ridiculous. " "'It is the talk of the music industry, nobody can work out why such a good-natured, fun song can't be acceptable in today's society," one music industry professional – whose name was withheld – told U. K. outlet The Daily Mail.
Thousands of people attended singer Oliver Anthony's free concert in North Carolina on Saturday following the massive success of "Rich Men North of Richmond. " Speaking on-camera for the first time with Fox News, Anthony said he hopes the song, which has been touted as a blue-collar anthem, represents more than just the working class. "People deal with depression and anxiety and misery and hopelessness no matter where they are at," Anthony told Fox News correspondent Griff Jenkins. "They don't have to be blue-collar Americans. I mean I've gotten messages from people in countries that I don't know how to pronounce. This is something that has touched people globally and there's a reason for that," he said.
A video claiming to show the planet Earth from the surface of the moon is being shared in false context as the recording from the Chandrayaan-3.Reverse image search of the keyframes extracted from the viral video led us to the original video posted by a user named Mithilesh Keshari on X (formerly Twitter) on 20 August 2023. However, he clarified that the video was AI-generated and not real footage from Chandrayaan-3. Furthermore, the Earth footage (here & here) captured by Chandrayaan-3 and released by ISRO does not align with the visuals depicted in the viral video.Another photo is being shared on social media, with the claim that it depicts visuals of Mars captured by Chandrayaan-3 against the lunar horizon. 
 Subsequently, Zimbabwe’s former fast bowler, Henry Olonga, took to Twitter to set the record straight, after which media outlets retracted their earlier news reports about zimbabwe Cricketer  heath streak. Initially, news reports circulated announcing the demise of Heath Streak but  Furthermore, Mid-Day reported that Heath Streak, who is battling cancer, personally communicated that he is alive and well. Addressing the situation, Streak reportedly told his writer, “It is a total rumour and a lie. I’m alive and well. I am very upset to learn that something as big as someone apparently passing can be spread unverified, especially in our day and age of social media.”
 Although the photo showing multiple transpotation modes was captured in Rajahmundry, the original photo does not contain an aeroplane.A reverse image search on the photo shared in the post led us to a Facebook page called ‘Our Rajamahendravaram,’ where the same photo was posted in November 2021. The caption for the post reads, “4 modes of transportation in one pic. Beautiful edit.” The photo credit is attributed to an Instagram account with the handle ‘Aurobindo_sf.’
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that the pictures depict Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is doing something wrong which is not true. Amid Rajnikanth’s defence for his action of bowing to Yogi Adityanath, citing a longstanding tradition of expressing reverence to Yogis or Sanyasis by touching their feet, this post is going viral on social media.
 American police did not employ UP’s ‘bulldozer model’ to arrest the accused. On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post ‘bulldozer model’, information related to the claim was found to be reported by several news channels. From the reports  it is clear that a man named Terran Green shot Harris County Sheriff’s Deputy, Joseph Anderson during a traffic stop and was also accused of wounding three law enforcement officers. To end the long standoff and arrest Green, the SWAT team used heavily armoured vehicles to capture him.Finally, Green was captured using the hydraulic arm of the vehicle called the Rook, smashing into the residence. Besides, Green was not the owner of the house, in fact, public records show that the house was rented by a woman. Michael Hill, the owner of the house was contacted by FBI officials before the attack seeking floor plans for the residence.
A video is being widely shared on social media  falsely claiming that the Narendra Modi government is going to deposit money into the accounts of siblings on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan not sure. Further, the video explains about Uttar Pradesh government’s Divyang Pension Yojana and the eligibility criteria for the scheme. Let’s verify the claim made in the viral video.On a relevant keyword search to learn about the claim made in the video, we found that no such official announcement was made by the government. Subsequent research showed that no state government made such a declaration. Further keyword searches related to such news directed us to similar videos being shared by the same channel . Also, various news articles  debunked these claims shared by this channel.
Firstly to check if any of the news reports about the Luna-25 spacecraft’s crash landing contained the viral video, we performed a keyword search on the internet but This search did not lead us to any credible sources (except for photos of the moon sent by the spacecraft). The official statement of the Russian space agency also did not include any video. Furthermore, a reverse image search on Google using a few keyframes from the viral clip revealed that this is a screengrab from a 3D visualisation of the moon created by “NASA science Visualiser Ernie Wright.”To sum up, an unrelated edited video is being shared on social media claiming it to be the visuals that show the crash landing of the Luna-25 spacecraft on the moon’s surface.
A post is being shared on social media claiming that Madhya Pradesh’s Bageshwar Dham temple head Dhirendra Shastri, also known as Bageshwar Dham Sarkar, is offering Moble recharge to indians which is not true. The post purportedly made by Bageshwar Dham Sarkar’s Facebook handle shared an URL link below and asks the users to click on the link to avail the benefits of this free money said to be distributed by Bageshwar Dham Sarkar. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.On clicking the URL link provided below the post, the URL led to a webpage claiming that Bageshwar Dham Sarkar intends to distribute Rs. 1999 to each individual in Madhya Pradesh. The webpage asks users to click on a red button to avail the benefits of this offer. However, after clicking the red button, the webpage didn’t lead to any other page.
 The news clipping shared in the post states that during a test conducted by a consumer on the same electrical line, a regular electric meter displayed a reading of 279 units, while the smart meter showed a reading of 429 units. After a month-long protest in Rajasthan’s Kota City over smart meters, the CEO of CESC company clarified in a press conference that the misconceptions about smart meters showing higher readings than standard electric meters were untrue. He stated that the company would install the meters only after ensuring consumer satisfaction. 
The same photo was found to be published by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) on Flicker in April 2011. ITDP published the image describing it as a pedestrian bridge located in Kunming City in China. The description provided below the photo stated that the photo was taken on 28 November 2009.Many pedestrian foot-over bridges are constructed over busy streets in Gujarat, Telangana, and other parts of the country. But the photo shared in the post does not show a pedestrian flyover in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur or any other city in India.
Media further reported that the Dubai administration woke up when the video went viral on social media and Pakistani users started condemning the act. Burj Khalifa later displayed the country’s national Flag. The official Instagram page of Burj Khalifa posted a video of the Pakistani flag displayed on the building on 14 August 2023, wishing all the Pakistanis a happy Independence Day.Celebrating Indian Independence Day, Indian National Flag was also displayed on Burj Khalifa on 15 August 2023.
A social media post asserting that a document sourced from the National Archives states that Gandhi used to be monthly allowance by the British government is being widely shared however is is false. This allowance supposedly aimed to cover his expenses. The post, which has gained significant traction, insinuates a potential connection between Gandhi and the British authorities as suggested by the shared document. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.The viral document in question is in fact, a letter authored by G.F.S. Collins, who served as the Secretary to the Home Department of the Government of Bombay, addressed to the Secretary of the Home Department of the Government of India.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
President Arif Alvi did not sign new national security laws.The president denied signing or assenting to changes being made to both bills.The gazette notes that the acts were “deemed to have been assented by the President with effect from 11th August, 2023”. However, on 20 August 2023, President Alvi denied personally signing and assenting to bills amending the Official Secrets Act and the Pakistan Army Act Bill 2023.The president said that he confirmed with his staff many times whether the bills were returned and was assured that they were. “However I have found out today that my staff undermined my will and command, I ask forgiveness from those who will be affected,”  the president said. 
Pakistani pastor’s interview about 2023 Jaranwala rampage falsely shared with divisive spin as the video shows Pakistani minority rights activist Pastor Ghazala Shafique, who is not the daughter of the late Mervyn Leslie Middlecoat.According to a 16 August Al Jazeera report (archive), large mobs of Muslims went on a rampage in the Jaranwala city of Faisalabad, located in Pakistan’s Punjab province, after “torn pages of the Quran, the holy book for Muslims, were discovered near the Christian colony with alleged blasphemous content written on them”.
Fazlur Rehman did not say he won’t celebrate Pakistan’s Independence Day.The report by Samaa mentioned that Rehman had said, “they will not be celebrating Independence Day on August 14 and will instead celebrate the struggle for freedom”. Pakistan’s opposition parties had alleged rigging in July 2018 polls. Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf won the election, but not an outright majority and formed a coalition government, according to a report by Voice of America. The tweet by @mfayyazraja gained significant traction with 117,700 views, 1,025 likes, 466 reposts, and 31 quote tweets.
Burj Khalifa did light up on Pakistan’s Independence Day.The world’s tallest building lit up with Pakistan’s national flag on the evening of 14 August 2023, as the United Arab Emirates marked the nation’s Independence Day.While the landmark did not light up at midnight, Soch Fact Check found the claim to be misleading. A keyword search revealed that multiple media outlets, including Geo News and Gulf News, reported that the Burj Khalifa was illuminated in Pakistani flag colours on Independence Day on the evening of 14 August 2023. Arab News also posted a video of the light show.Contrary to viral claims, the Burj Khalifa did light up to commemorate Pakistan’s 76th Independence Day on 14 August 2023. 
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf’s media strategist Imran Ghazali rejected the claim; he confirmed that the statement is fake statement and that Khan had been clarifying his stance regarding the cypher conspiracy in a number of YouTube videos on his official channel . Imran Khan did not apologise to the nation on the cypher issue. This screenshot makes it seem like Khan recently made  this statement, rejecting the cypher conspiracy. In March 2022, the former prime minister first spoke about this allegation at a public rally in Islamabad. Khan claimed that he had received a secret document from Pakistan’s embassy in Washington, which revealed a plot by the US government to remove him from power and install a puppet regime in Islamabad.
The WhatsApp forward claiming that the government has passed a bill which will result in a huge decrease in public servants’ pensions is false. No such bill has been passed or proposed by the government.Soch Fact Check searched for any official notification or announcement from the government regarding the alleged bill but did not find any. We also searched for news reports or statements from government officials or representatives of government employees’ associations about the bill, but again found nothing.The news search results we found were either about other countries’ pension policies or unrelated topics. If such a policy or bill was passed by the Pakistani government, it would have been reported by the media, which it was not.
The video was created by TikTok user @owltreestump, using an open-source 3D computer graphics software called blender. The clip is CGI and not real footage of an alien.The hashtags indicate that @owltreestump had used blender, an open-source 3D computer graphics software used to create, among other things, animated films and visual effects. This finding helped us ascertain that the video is computer-generated imagery (CGI) and not real footage of an alien  in the backyard of a Las Vegas hom.Moreover, Dr Adam Frank, an astrophysics professor at the University of Rochester, told CNN anchor Fredricka Whitfield that the light streak seen in the sky is “a meteor and it stays exactly the way I would expect the meteor to fade”.
The cypher was posted by a parody account of the Director General of Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), or DG ISPR, in July 2023. Its informal language, spelling errors and lack of diplomatic tone suggest that it is not an official communication or cable between Pakistan and the United States. Since his ouster, former prime minister Imran Khan has repeatedly mentioned a cypher as evidence of a conspiracy to remove his government. The purported cypher, sent to Islamabad last year by Pakistan’s former ambassador to the US, recounted a meeting involving US State Department officials, including Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs Donald Lu, and Pakistani envoy Asad Majeed Khan.The secret document  which is not a cypher,  between Pakistan and US by Salman Ahmad was actually posted by a parody account in July 2023 
The pictures collage show three different women , all are not seema haider. The black-and-white image shows Usharani Narendra, one of India’s first woman sub-inspectors of police. Another one depicts Major Samia Rehman, a Pakistan Army officer who has served in the UN Peacekeeping Mission in DR Congo. The third and last is actually Seema Haider.Haider worked there. Priyanka decided to return after she was successful in her goals.According to Seema, she has studied till Class 5. But listening to how she speaks in the interview, there is a difference compared to her claim. She speaks Urdu, English, and Hindi fluently but hesitates to speak Sindhi. God knows what the real deal is. This leads to illusions and assumptions. On the other side of the cassette, this needs to be pondered upon and, therefore, such questions arise.”
The photo shows Sharif crying while watching a video of the Pakistan Army martyrs during an event where he also met the martyrs’ families not on increasing inflation. It is authentic but presented in a misleading context.On 1 August 2023, Facebook user Hamid Latif Jarral posted (archive) a picture of Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif with a tear rolling down his face. The Sharif-led federal government hiked petrol prices on 1 August, effective immediately, with Finance Minister Ishaq Dar saying (archive) the decision was made “in the national interest”.
The picture shows the Olive Tree of Vouves in the Ano Vouves village in Kolymvari, which is located on Greece’s Crete island; experts estimate that it is 3,000 years old not in israel. TinEye turned up a blog titled “Wisdom from The Oldest Olive Tree in the World” and a Reddit thread, the comments of which led us to the Wikipedia page of the Olive Tree of Vouves. It is located in the Ano Vouves village in Kolymvari in Greece’s Crete island. Google Lens led us to the digital magazine Atlas Obscura, which says “it might even be the oldest in the world”. Yandex Reverse Image Search directed us to a tweet by Brazilian content creator Fotos de Fatos, who says the Olive Tree of Vouves is “set in a cemetery on the island of Crete, Greece” and “still produces olives”.
The videos showing a zebra and lions date back to 2020 while the clip showing an elephant could not be found online. Paris zoo confirmed that no animals escaped recently and old videos are being linked to the June and July 2023 protests over kiilling of an Algerian  teenager,A report by Le Parisien published at the time states that the animals were spotted in Chennevières et Champigny-sur-Marne, a Parisian suburb, following their escape from a nearby circus after their enclosure was opened. To confirm the veracity of the second clip featuring lions purportedly, Soch Fact Check searched YouTube with keywords and found a video published on 12 February 2020. This video and the viral clip are the same based on key indicators. However, reverse-image search and keyword search for the third clip showing an elephant yielded no results. Multiple publications, including AFP, reached out to Paris zoos who told them that the videos were not filmed during the recent riots and no animals escaped from the zoo during this time.
The entire Trocadero building is not being converted into a mosque, and nor will it utilise three floors. Originally built as a restaurant in 1896, the Trocadero was later turned into an exhibition centre and entertainment space in the 1980s. Aziz, the founder of real estate firm Criterion Capital, bought the iconic landmark for 220 million pounds in 2005. The statement further said that the foundation is proud “to support the Piccadilly Community Centre, its prayer space, local community initiatives and interfaith work”. Contrary to media reports, Aziz Foundation has clarified that the entire Trocadero building is not being converted into a three-storey mosque. In fact, already available space in the basement will be utilised to offer a prayer space for Muslims in the area.
Video does not show Swedish presidential palace on fire.The clip is not from Sweden. It shows the Manila Central Post Office in the Philippines, engulfed in fire in May 2023. Sweden has faced condemnations from Muslim countries for permitting an Iraqi refugee, Salwan Momika, to go ahead with the second planned burning of Islam’s holy book in front of the Iraqi embassy in Stockholm on 20 July 2023. While protesters partially damaged a book they said was the Quran, they did not burn it as they had threatened to do, according to a report by Al Jazeera. During Eid-ul Azha, Salwan also burned pages of a copy of the Quran in front of Stockholm’s largest mosque on 28 June 2023.Soch Fact Check reverse-searched some keyframes from the video and found similar photos were carried in a 22 May 2023 article by The Independent titled, “Fire destroys main post office in Philippine capital, a nearly 100-year-old neoclassical landmark.”
The press secretary to the President Arif confirmed that only seven members of Arif Alvi’s family were a part of this delegation and that the president paid himself for all of their expenses, including plane tickets and accommodation not from tax. On 17 July 2023, President Arif Alvi and his family departed for Saudi Arabia to perform Hajj, along with federal ministers and parliamentarians. They traveled on a special flight that was arranged by the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Interfaith Harmony for the official Hajj delegation. From 25 June 2023 onwards, several social media posts alleged that the president and his family were performing Hajj on taxpayers’ money. Some claimed the president travelled with a 52-person entourage. A purported list of 25 members of his family and security staff performing Hajj for free was also circulated on social media, raising questions about the misuse of public funds.
On 1 June 2023, a video went viral on Twitter, claiming that Imran Khan made a derogatory comment about Chief of the Army Staff, Asim Munir’s father which is not true. This video reached 605,500 views on Twitter and more than 1200 interactions.Soch Fact Check decided to take a closer look at the video to gauge whether Khan actually made a comment about General Asim Munir’s father. Through close listening and by reverse image searching the keyframes of the video on Google Image Search, we discovered that the phrase “Qasim ka jo walid hai” Qasim’s father was being confused for “Asim ka jo walid hai” COAS Asim Munir’s father.
The Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution does not say that the accused’s statement cannot be used against them in court, nor does it allow them to change their statements. It only protects them from being compelled to testify against themselves, and changing your statements can be a crime in some circumstances. On 26 July 2023, Dunya News aired an interview with Aitzaz Ahsen, a senior lawyer and politician, on their TV channel and social media pages. The interviewer asked him about Imran Khan’s alleged change of stance over whether a paper he waved in front of a crowd at a rally was the controversial diplomatic cypher which he claimed proved US interference in Pakistan’s politics. He responded by saying although Khan is famous for his U-turns, it is his right as an accused to change his stance, which is supported by jurisprudence. Ahsan goes on to claim the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution says the accused’s statement cannot be used against them in court, and they are allowed to change their statements.
 According to the Pakistan Bureau of Emigration and Overseas Employment (BE&OE), between 1971 and 2019, 40,807 Pakistani registered female emigrants went overseas to work. Pakistan has not banned women from going overseas on labour visas.The largest category of these women (14 per cent) migrated as domestic workers/housemaids. On 19 June 2023, jewellery designer Sara Taseer, the daughter of former governor Punjab Salman Taseer, claimed that Pakistan banned women from going overseas on labour visas. She claimed that this policy prevents women from working in nursing, teaching, and hospitality through legal work permits. Taseer further claimed, “This is a law in Pakistan for 35 years. Women are not allowed to exit on a labour visa. It was put in place to prevent human trafficking. But the world has changed since then. ”
The video is neither recent nor from a British Airways flight from Pakistan to London. It is, in fact, from a flight from Saudi Arabia to Ethiopia in 2016.On 19 July 2023, Pakistani-origin Australian author Harris Sultan quote-tweeted (archive) a post by the Twitter account @InsaneRealitys and wrote: “In case you are thinking about saying it but can’t because you don’t want to be called racist, here it is: These people are uncivilised and primitive! ”. It was, in fact, “filmed on an inaugural flight from Jeddah in Saudi Arabia to Addis Ababa in Ethiopia”, according to a Daily Mail report (archive) from 5 September 2016. The publication said it was first posted on 30 August 2016, apparently on Facebook page @mabr0k, which does not appear to be active anymore.
The two videos are old and unrelated to Imran Riaz Khan’s disappearance. They show him being released from different legal cases in 2022 and 2023. Bushra Bibi was not present or involved in any of the events. Imran Riaz Khan is still missing as of 31 July 2023. On 30 July 2023, the YouTube channel ‘True Breaking News’ posted a video titled “Imran Riaz Khan Release Grand Welcome Bushra Bibi And Gift’. The video has two clips allegedly showing Imran Riaz Khan being welcomed by a crowd with the voice-over narration claiming he was welcomed by Bushra Bibi.The claim that Imran Riaz Khan was found and welcomed by Bushra Bibi is false. The videos used to support this claim are old and unrelated to his disappearance. Imran Riaz Khan is still missing as of 31 July 2023.
In summary, it is false that BBC News published a story or a study that called Pakistani doctors expensive and worthless and misleading to claim that numerous facts and figures from a recent study in the Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences show their incompetence.On 18 July 2023, Twitter user @Rafi_Shaair posted a tweet that said a recent study in the Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences quoted by BBC News reveals the incompetence of Pakistani doctors. Additionally, it was claimed the research found that 63% of prescriptions contain errors, and 55% do not indicate the duration of taking the drug.BC News has not published any such story or study about Pakistani doctors on its website or social media platforms. A search on the BBC News website for the keywords “Pakistani doctors” did not yield any results showing that a recent article has claimed such a thing as mentioned in the claim section above.BC News has not published any such story or study about Pakistani doctors on its website or social media platforms. A search on the BBC News website for the keywords “Pakistani doctors” did not yield any results showing that a recent article has claimed such a thing as mentioned in the claim section above.
Zartaj Gul did not leave PTI or join PPP. She remains a senior PTI leader and a supporter of Imran Khan. The post did not provide any source or evidence for the claim. On 20 July 2023, a tweet by user @wikiboy5 went viral on social media. The post claimed that former federal minister and PTI leader Zartaj Gul has joined the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP). This claim is false. The posts by Twitter user @wikiboy5 and various Facebook users did not mention any source or evidence for the claim that Zartaj Gul has left PTI or joined PPP. Soch Fact Check could not find any official announcement or confirmation from Zartaj Gul, PPP or PTI regarding this claim. We reviewed her Twitter account and noticed that she has not posted any tweets since 17 May 2023; the pinned tweet on her profile and the bio on her legacy verified Twitter account clearly show her support for PTI and Imran Khan.
Defence Minister Khawaja Asif and Planning Minister Ahsan Iqbal, who are both part of the PMLN committee to develop consensus on the caretaker premier’s names and Interior Minister Rana Sanaullah, all denied finalising any names or agreeing to appoint Ishaq Dar for the position of caretaker prime minister.. during party meetings. On 23 July 2023, several media outlets and social media users reported that the PMLN, the majority party in the federal government ruling coalition, had internally agreed to appoint Finance Minister Senator Ishaq Dar as the caretaker prime minister. The reports cited unnamed sources within the PMLN or close to Dar as confirming the decision. Geo News, Arab News, The News, and Express Tribune were among those who published the claim. The claim was also shared on Facebook and Twitter, with many users expressing their support or criticism of the alleged move. The claim came amid speculation over who would lead the interim government after the completion of the incumbent government’s tenure in August 2023.
The claim that a minor domestic worker who was allegedly physically abused by a judge’s wife in Islamabad has died of her injuries is false. She is alive and recovering in the ICU of Lahore General Hospital, where she was shifted to on 26 July 2023.The girl is alive and recovering in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Lahore General Hospital, where she was shifted to on 26 July 2023 from Sargodha DHQ hospital. She also gave an interview from Lahore General Hospital on 28 July 2023, which shows she is in serious condition, but she is alive.On 25 July 2023, news broke that Rizwana, a 14-year-old domestic worker, was found badly injured at the house of a Judge in Islamabad. According to the FIR lodged by her father, Manga Khan, the girl had been working at the judge’s house for two months and was subjected to physical abuse by the judge’s wife. He said he visited his daughter two days ago and found her locked in a room with torture marks on her body.
72% of women in Pakistan do not smoke and the Pakistan Tobacco Board said that the figure was from a 2005 survey and PTB has no involvement in it.On 23 July 2023, Geo News and The News published reports on the number of women smokers in Pakistan.Geo News carried the story under the headline, “72% of women in Pakistan are smokers: PTB”, whereas The News ran the headline, “Shocking surge: ‘72% of Pakistani women’ are smokers”.
A recent viral video shows a sandstorm in Egypt, not Cyclone Biparjoy near Pakistan and India as the claim is false as the video is from Egypt and actually shows a sandstorm at the Suez Canal.Cyclone Biparjoy was churning across the northeastern Arabian Sea and hit western India on 15 June 2023. The storm was predicted to make landfall near the border of India (Kutch in the western Indian state of Gujarat) and Pakistan (coastal areas of Sindh and Balochistan) around midday Thursday. However, the cyclone changed its direction, and after coastal warnings were issued, tens of thousands of people were evacuated in both countries.
A 24 News bulletin claiming that alcohol was found in TLP leader Saad Rizvi’s car is fake.Through a reverse image search, Soch Fact Check found that the bulletin was not originally shared by 24 News. We also searched the following key terms on various search engines and found a clarification published by the news publication  the very next day. Many of our viewers and users have also confirmed this after investigation  the institution condemns the cheap propaganda by spreading this fake news and reserves the right to take legal action against the elements behind this reprehensible act.
There is no truth to the claim. Hasiba Noori has released a video statement saying that she is alive in Peshawar . Moreover, police in Peshawar and Quetta have denied receiving information about any such targeted killing.On 17 July 2023, TV9 Network Executive Editor and journalist Aditya Raj Kaul posted (archive) on Twitter two pictures — one of Afghan singer Hasiba Noori and another reportedly of a deceased woman in a blue-and-red gradient-based filter.Some people, however, disputed the claim that she was shot in Peshawar, saying she had died in Quetta due to an overdose, 
The viral photo that features the Taliban is not related to the dispute between two tribes over land in Kurram; it is an old photo and are not gathered at the border. Soch Fact Check used reverse image search tools and found multiple tweets from 9 August 2021 here, here, here, here and here, carrying the same photo. One of the tweets, posted by Chris Alexander (@calxandr), states that the photo shows Taliban fighters waiting to cross the border from Pakistan to Afghanistan. The search also turned up a LinkedIn post by The Afghan Security Institute that carries the same photo with the caption, “Militants seem to be waiting alongside the Durand Line (Pak-Afghan) border to take part in the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan. ”
The Instagram post misrepresented the World Economic Forum page on Shahzada Dawood.Titan passenger Shahzada Dawood was not the World Economic Forum’s vice chairman. A conspiracy theory shared on social media suggested a passenger’s connection to the World Economic Forum had something to do with the imploded Titan submersible.He was referring to Shahzada Dawood and his son, Suleman, two of the submersible five passengers.The man showed a screenshot of a page about Shahzada Dawood on the World Economic Forum website. 
An image of the Hoover Dam in the USA was falsely shared as the Mohmand Dam in Pakistan. Through Google Reverse Image Search, we found that this image actually shows the Hoover Dam in the United States of America. The same image was shared 20 weeks ago by an Instagram account with the caption, “The construction of Hoover dam Bridge Bypass Arizona Nevada, Las Vegas, USA. ” The same image was also shared on Pinterest in August 2011 with the caption “National Landmark in Arizona & Nevada, the Hoover Dam and National Recreation Area, Lake Mead. ”
A video clip showing Imran Khan with more wrinkles and gray hair looking older  is AI-generated and is not realThrough reverse image search, Soch Fact Check found that the keyframes of this video clip match those of a recent video of Imran Khan’s public address to the nation, streamed live on YouTube on 1 June 2023. LIVE | Chairman PTI Imran Khan’s Important Address to Nation At the timestamp 20:58 onwards, Imran Khan repeats the same sentences as those mentioned in the claim, wearing the same clothes, with the same colour of wall and the same flags in the background.
The notification circulating on social media about cut in pension  was fake, say officials, adding that no such policy was under consideration. A senior official of the ministry of finance, who asked not to be named, said the claims were “baseless” and “absolutely false”. “This is not even under consideration,” he added, over the phone. Geo Fact Check then reached out to the finance department of the Punjab government. “To the extent of the Punjab government, this claim is totally false,” said an official, who asked to remain anonymous. Geo Fact Check also spoke to Kashif Shahzad Choudhry, the president of the Punjab Teachers Union. Choudhry confirmed that the claims were “incorrect”, and he had not seen any such notification.
Neither has António Guterres, the United Nations Secretary-General, nor has his spokesperson made any such comment about Pakistan’s former prime minister Imran khan. Guterres has not issued any statement about Imran Khan’s imprisonment after August 5. There is, however, one statement that was issued by him the last time Khan was cuffed in May. Even then, the Secretary-General did not call the arrest “illegal”. His statement can be viewed here. Geo Fact Check has gone through the daily press briefings of the Office of the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General from August 5 to date. In all the four pressers till now, the Secretary-General Office was asked about Imran Khan only once, on August 7. In response, the spokesperson said that the Secretary-General has been taking notes of the ongoing protests that have erupted following the arrest of Pakistan’s former prime minister Imran Khan.
Construction on the Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital in Karachi is ongoing and has not been halted, confirms the Hospital’s administration. “Work [on the Hospital] began in 2019 and will finish sometime in 2024,” said Dr Faisal Sultan, the CEO at Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centers. Sultan told Geo Fact Check that there may be some delays “due to various reasons” such as supply chain disruptions etc. The doctor also rubbished claims on social media that the Hospital was slated to open on August 14. “There was no such announcement,” he said.

Punjab has indeed increased the fine on stubble fires from the earlier rate of Rs50,000 to Rs500,000, confirms the Environment Protection Department (EPD) Punjab, which is responsible for the protection, conservation and improvement of the environment in the province. Naseem-ur-Rehman, the spokesperson of the EPD, told Geo Fact Check over the phone that while the notification circulating online was not issued by their department but the information mentioned in the document was accurate. Earlier, a flat fine of Rs50,000 was imposed across the board on stubble burning regardless of the stretch of the land. Now, a penalty of Rs15,000 will be collected per acre on one to 10 acres of land, Rs20,000 per acre on 10 to 20 acres of land, Rs400,000 on 20 to 25 acres of land and a whopping penalty of Rs500,000 on land measuring 25 acres. 
The Election Commission of Pakistan, tasked to conduct polls in the country, has neither delisted the PTI from its list of registered political parties nor has it reassigned former prime minister Imran Khan’s name to another party. Haroon Khan Shinwari, the additional director of general media coordination at the ECP, told Geo Fact Check over the phone that the PTI is still listed on the ECP’s website. “Nothing has changed,” said Shinwari, “PTI is present along with 167 other [political] parties. Their heads are also named. ” Shinwari added that there is a constitutional process to delist a political party, the ECP cannot do so on its own. The official also shared an internal ECP document which lists down all the political parties which can contest the upcoming polls in the country. There are 168 political parties on the list, and the PTI's name is present in the document, along with that of its chairman, Imran Khan.
Each new amendment in the Bill 2023 clearly states that it would apply to “any person who is or has been subject to this Act” not only retired military officers and servings.Section 2(d) of the Pakistan Army Act 1952 does mention civilians but states that they will only be subject to the Act if they commit specific crimes. Otherwise, civilians remain outside the ambit of the Pakistan Army Act 1952 altogether. No alterations or changes have been made to the above definitions in the new Bill. Advocate Colonel(r) Inam ur Raheem also confirmed to Geo Fact Check that the recent amendments have made the law more stringent for people in the armed forces and those related to it. “These new amendment are not that much applicable on civilians, they are primarily for serving and retired army officers,” Raheem explained over the phone.
“Apricot seeds contain a compound named amygdalin, an enzyme that your gut turns into a potentially deadly chemical called 'cyanide',” Farah Syed, a senior dietitian at Aga Khan University Hospital in Karachi, Sindh, told Geo Fact Check, via messages. “However, the level of danger depends on the quantity of the seeds. Having five to six apricot seeds will not cause any harm,” she added, “But if someone consumes the seeds in large quantities (i. e. 15-20), this will be harmful and may lead to death. ” Syed added that there was no scientific evidence to date that cyanide can kill cancer cells. Dr Rezzan Khan, the head of the clinical nutrition department and a consultant nutritionist at the private Shifa International Hospital in Islamabad, also agreed with Syed. Consuming more than 10 or 15 apricots seeds in a day can lead to cyanide poisoning and death, warn nutritionists and doctors. “Apricot kernels contain a small amount of cyanide,” she said, over the phone, “When eaten in large quantities they can cause cyanide poisoning. But when these apricot kernels are boiled at a high temperature for around 20-30 minutes, it destroys the poisonous effect. ”
No pilgrim from Pakistan has been arrested or convicted during Hajj this year, confirm two officials at Pakistan’s Ministry of Religious Affairs and Interfaith Harmony. “I saw these claims on social media too,” Muhammad Umar Butt, the spokesperson of the ministry, told Geo Fact Check over the phone. “It is fake news. We do not have any such information or reports about arrests. ” He added that, however, 67 pilgrims had been reported missing earlier in the Kingdom, out of which 66 have returned, and one is still untraceable. Separately, Mushahid Hussain Khalid, a director general at the ministry, which deals with presentation and coordination, also told Geo Fact Check that the ministry has no such report of arrests to date. “There is no such report,” he said in a voice message, “Only one [Pakistani] pilgrim has been missing. ”

Construction on the Mohmand Dam is still ongoing and is expected to be completed by the year 2026 or 2027, confirm officials. Geo Fact Check reached out to the public relations division of the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), a government-run agency tasked with the maintenance of water and power resources in the country, to confirm the veracity of the claim. WAPDA shared an official document, as well as recent photographs of the Mohmand Dam site with Geo Fact Check. According to the document, work on the Mohmand Dam Hydropower Project began in May 2019. The dam is being built on the Swat river in the Mohmand district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The document further states that construction is progressing at 12 sites for the Dam and WAPDA “is determined to complete it by 2026-27” at a PC-1 approved cost of Rs309. 56 billion. The PC-1 of the project was approved on April 26, 2018.
The salary scale of a parliamentarian is indeed less than that of a federal secretary, confirms the office of the Accountant General Pakistan Revenues (AGPR), the state organisation responsible for accounting and reporting all federal transactions. “He is right,” said a senior official of the Accountant General Pakistan Revenues, who did not want to be named, “The estimated gross monthly pay of a federal secretary is around Rs450,000 to Rs490,000 or more [before tax], depending on the years they spent in government service. ” While the gross monthly salary of an MNA was around Rs220,000 before tax, he added. The Accountant General Pakistan Revenues then shared an official document with Geo Fact Check, which listed the pay scales and perks of judges of the Supreme Court, the president, bureaucrats, ministers and lawmakers. According to the document, the gross monthly salary of an MNA is Rs213,000. 
Officials confirm that the interim government in Punjab has indeed given the go-ahead to purchase over 200 vehicles, at the cost of Rs2. 33 billion, for bureaucrats in the province. As per the details provided to Geo Fact Check by a senior official of the finance department in Punjab, who asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter, the additional commissioners in the province will be allotted Toyota Corolla 1. 6 Altis CVT each, the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) general of each district will get a Yaris ATIV 1. 3L and the assistant commissioners (AC) of each tehsil will get a luxury double cabin 4*4 Revo-G M/T. The official further said that the notification circulating online about the purchase of the cars was “fake” and not issued by his department. However, the information in the alleged communiqué was accurate, he said, adding that his department has prepared a notification in this regard and will be publishing it soon. 
France has been burning continuously for the last six days. This came after the teenager Nahel, of Algerian descent, was shot and killed by a police officer during a traffic stop in the Paris suburb of Nanterre. President Emmanuel Macron held a high-level meeting on July 3 with parliament ministers in response to the crisis. Amidst the ongoing violence in France, a video is going viral on social media. In the viral video, cars can be seen falling from the roof of a building and exploding upon impact. While sharing this video, people on social media misleading claimed that this video depicts the current violence in France, where people from the Muslim community vandalised the cars parked in the parking lot however it's not true. 
The viral press release is false and has not been issued by France's Ministry of the Interior and overseas. France's government has not imposed a shutdown of internet services in the country so far.From July 3 and for a fixed period, temporary restrictions will be applied to Internet access in certain specific neighbourhoods during night hours. These restrictions aim to prevent the misuse of social media and online platforms to coordinate illegal actions and incite violence. It is important to note that these restrictions are not put in place to restrict the fundamental freedoms of citizens, but rather in order to preserve their safety as well as that of their property. In addition, the measures will not affect essential services, such as hospitals, emergency services and critical infrastructure. 
The Logical Indian fact check team verified the claim and found it false as the woman is Gehna Vasistha, an actress who embraced Islam and married Faizan Ansari, a YouTuber.A picture showcasing a newly married couple wearing garland is doing rounds on social media. It is claimed that the photo shows a woman named Vandana Tiwari, the sister of Dhirendra Shastri of Bageshwar Dham. Further, it is claimed that she married a Muslim and converted to Islam.
An old photo of a restaurant's banner calling a Thai opposition leader the kingdom's new premier has been shared thousands of times alongside a false claim it was hung in tourist hub Phuket when Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin visited in August. However, the picture predates Srettha's appointment and was actually taken in a province near the capital Bangkok. The photo was posted on August 26 on X, formerly known as Twitter, where it has been shared more than 1,700 times. Restaurant photo shared with false claim as new Thai PM visits tourism hub. It appears to show a banner at a restaurant that reads: "Pleasant welcome to Pita Limjaroenrat, the 30th Prime Minister of Thailand. " The eatery's name has been blurred out in the image. "The banner folks from Phuket chose to welcome Srettha, the Prime Minister," reads the Thai-language caption.
A TikTok account impersonating Indonesian President Joko Widodo, popularly known as Jokowi, has shared a misleading and fake video that purportedly shows him announcing a government cash handout to anyone who follows the page. The clip actually shows the Indonesian leader announcing financial support for street vendors during the pandemic in 2021. A presidential spokesperson said Jokowi does not have a TikTok account. The video, which was uploaded on TikTok on July 24, 2023, shows Jokowi giving a speech in which he announces an Indonesian government handout of 1. 2 million rupiah ($78), without giving further details. The 22-second clip then shows a person following a TikTok account with Jokowi's photo as its profile picture, and liking and sharing a video of him.
Thailand's southern Krasae Sin district has not been converted into the kingdom's "newest province", contrary to false social media posts circulating since July. The district does not meet the population and land area requirements to be considered a province as of August 29, a Thai official told AFP. "King Rama 10 has bestowed the name 'Krasae Sin' on the country's newest province," reads the Thai-language claim shared on Facebook on July 8, 2023. The post says Krasae Sin, a district in southern Thailand would become the country's 78th province.
After India's historic lunar landing, a fake video appearing to show a view of the Earth surfaced in posts claiming it was filmed from the Chandrayaan-3 spacecraft that touched down near the Moon's south pole. The clip was shared by various members of India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But the footage was made using computer-generated imagery. The creator of the video posted it in April 2023, months before India's lunar mission. "Here is a beautiful picture sent by Chandrayaan-3 mission from the moon! " says a Hindi-language post by Wasim Khan on X, formerly known as Twitter. The post viewed more than 250,000 times on X was shared on August 21, 2023, two days before India became the first nation to land a spacecraft on the Moon's south pole.
A South Korean blogger says it is "baffling" that a photo she took for a paper shredder product review has been used in unrelated social media posts that claim officials being investigated over the troubled World Scout Jamboree shredded a decades' worth of documents. Paper shredder review photo misleadingly and falsely linked to probe into troubled South Korea jamboreeCommenters appeared to be misled into thinking the photo showed evidence of a coverup, but her product review photo was posted years before the jamboree. "North Jeolla province shredded 10-years' worth of documents related to the Jamboree," reads the Korean-language caption on the image -- of a hand holding a clump of shredded paper -- shared on Facebook on August 12. "Several news organisations have approached me about the source of this post," text below the image adds. 
A video has been viewed hundreds of times in social media posts falsely claiming it shows Indonesian President Joko Widodo inaugurating "China's hospital" in the capital Jakarta. The footage in fact shows a hospital run by a Buddhist foundation, which is the Indonesian arm of a Taiwan-based charity group. "WHAT'S BEHIND THE HEALTH LAW THAT THE REGIME IS DETERMINED TO PASS? " reads an Indonesian-language post on X, formerly known as Twitter, dated July 17, 2023. "The law was passed on July 11. On July 16, China's grandiose hospital emerged in Jakarta. Do you see what's happening? " The post also shared a video that shows President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo inaugurating the Tzu Chi Hospital in Jakarta .
The Philippines has not scrapped the final two years of high school, contrary to false posts shared on social media which have misrepresented remarks by Vice President Sara Duterte. An education spokesman told AFP that only legislation can prompt such a change. No law shortening the archipelago's basic education has been passed as of August 25. "No more K-12, it's back to K-10," reads part of a Facebook post shared on August 10. "K-12" refers to the Philippine national education programme which mandates 13 years of schooling, from kindergarten to 12th grade. The scheme was established in 2013 in a bid to align basic education in the country with the rest of the world. Before this, the Philippines had a 10-year basic education system, consisting of six years of primary education and four years of high school. The post features a clip showing Vice President and Education Secretary Sara Duterte announcing the launch of an adjusted curriculum that covers "K to 10" -- the first 10 years of schooling.

Scientists have debunked anti-vaccine comments from a high-ranking police officer in Indonesia who baselessly claimed that immunisation destroys cells and causes conditions such as autism. Vaccines do not destroy cells but stimulate the body's immune system to create defence against diseases. Severe or long-lasting side effects from vaccines are extremely rare, according to the World Health Organization. A video of Dharma Pongrekun, an analyst at the Indonesian National Police Education and Training Institute, was posted on Instagram on July 19, 2023. "Immunisation is causing the destruction of their cells, as a given cell or DNA is from God," the police officer says in Indonesian. "It causes them to have autism, meningitis, polio, autoimmune (sic), etc, causing a non-spiritualistic character. " "This is what the 3-star general said.
After Pakistan's former prime minister Imran Khan was jailed for three years in August 2023, a video was shared in multiple social media posts that falsely claimed it showed his supporters amassing on a road. While there were scattered protests following Khan's jailing for graft, the video in fact shows a protest from November 2022 after an attempt was made on the ousted leader's life. "Faizabad at this moment. People will not accept it," reads the Urdu-language caption of a video shared on Facebook on August 5, 2023 by a user who says they are affiliated with the student wing of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. The video, which appears to show a crowd of protesters gathering on a road, was shared shortly after a court in Islamabad sentenced Khan to three years in jail for graft.
A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times in TikTok posts falsely claiming that it shows an airplane that crashed near Malaysia's capital in August 2023, killing 10 people. The video was posted online by an Indonesian visual effects artist months before the plane crash. The artist told AFP that he made the clip with visual effects software. A clip -- which appears to show a plane on fire, leaving a trail of smoke in its wake as it flies low over some houses -- has been viewed 24,000 times after it was shared on TikTok on August 18, 2023. "God Is Great Moments before the plane crashed," reads the Malay-language caption. Meanwhile, English-language sticker text on the nine-second video reads: "Aircraft N28JV From Langkawi to Subang Crashed at Elmina Area / Operator Jet Valet Sdn Bhd".

A video of people driving over an Indian flag while others holding Pakistan flags cheer them has been repeatedly shared online with the false claim it was filmed in the Indian state of Kerala. The clip was actually shot in Karachi, Pakistan and shows an anti-India rally according to a shopkeeper who saw the incident. "Watch this video from Kerala and be shocked at this open display of anti national fervour," reads part of the caption to the video shared here on Facebook on July 12, 2023. "What should be the punishment to perpetrators including the state government? " it adds. Southern Kerala state and its left-wing government have frequently been accused of anti-nationalism including by members of India's ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. The video shows vehicles driving over an Indian flag as bystanders cheer and wave the Pakistan flag.
Experts dismiss claim that new mobile phone networks reduced bird population.Multiple Facebook posts have been shared with a misleading claim that new mobile phone networks have led to a drop in bird populations. Experts told AFP there is no conclusive link between the rollout of new mobile networks and the decline. "Do you see how the birds have waned away with the advancement of mobile radio waves 2G, 3G, 4G, 5G," reads the text of an image shared in this Sinhala-language Facebook post on June 7, 2023. The image also has an illustration depicting the evolution of mobile network technology alongside a thinning flock of birds.
A graphic video of a man assaulted in broad daylight has resurfaced in social media posts that falsely link it to religious riots near India's capital New Delhi in July 2023. But the video has circulated since 2017 in posts about an incident in Bangladesh. Police records seen by AFP state the man was killed in the attack on April 1, 2017.Video shows assault in Bangladesh in 2017, not religious riots in India in 2023.The 12-second video, which shows a group of men assaulting someone lying prone on the ground, was shared here on X, formerly known as Twitter, on August 2, 2023. At the five-second mark of the video, one of the assailants, who is wearing a white skullcap, picks up a large rock and throws it down onto the victim's legs.
A false claim that a Thai TikTok user was banned from entering Japan for 20 years for filming themselves dancing on a train has been shared thousands of times on social media. There is no 20-year entry ban under Japanese immigration law. Japanese authorities said dancing on a train was not illegal, although it "may be considered rude and frowned upon". Meanwhile, AFP found no trace of a news report credited with publishing the story. "Mr. Wacharapol Pornsongnern, 32, male, has been banned from entering the country for 20 years by the Japanese government over allegations of #dancing_and_filming_on_trains. Credit: NHK," reads a Thai-language Facebook post shared on August 14. NHK is a Japanese broadcaster.
Footage of an air show with planes leaving behind a tri-colour trail of smoke has surfaced in posts falsely claiming it was filmed at Indian Independence Day celebrations in August. The video actually shows Italian Air Force pilots showcasing the national flag to mark the Italian Air Force's centenary near Rome. "Wonderful performance by Indian Air Force pilots on independence day," says a post on X, formerly known as Twitter. The post was shared on August 17, two days after India marked its annual Independence Day celebrations.
 After critics denounced a Bangladesh blogger for allegedly posting blasphemous content, a video was viewed more than half a million times in social media posts that falsely claimed it showed him chased and beaten by a mob. The video was in fact taken from a short film. Video shows teaser for short film, not attack on exiled Bangladesh blogger.The filmmaker told AFP he played the man being chased in the scene. "Asad Noor is getting rewarded! Praise be to God! God tolerates you for some time, but not forever," reads a Bengali-language Facebook post shared on on August 7. The 14-second clip, which has more than 500,000 views, appears to show a man trying to escape from a mob hitting him and shouting "Catch him, catch him! " and "Beat him! "
A video of a girl holding back tears as she talks to a journalist about her home being demolished has been shared in multiple social media posts in India that misleadingly claim the girl's home was torn down by authorities after religious riots broke out in northern Haryana state at the end of July 2023. While allegedly illegal constructions -- including homes -- were torn down by the Haryana government after the riots, this interview was conducted a month earlier. It does show a girl whose home was demolished, but was clipped from a report about makeshift homes torn down in Delhi on land slated for development. "Not just my house, but my future has also been demolished," reads a Hindi-language quote included in the caption of a 59-second-long video shared here on X, formerly known as Twitter, on August 10, 2023. 
President Ferdinand Marcos is not the first Philippine leader to award cash incentives to athletes who have excelled in international competitions, contrary to false posts shared in the archipelago. Government records show his predecessors did so, as required by law. "OMG THIS IS HISTORIC! " says the Tagalog-language title of a YouTube video with more than 23,000 views.  'PBBM' stands for President Bongbong Marcos, referring to the leader's popular nickname. The video, posted on August 9, shows Marcos addressing athletes who bagged medals at the Southeast Asian Games and Para Games in Cambodia in May and June.
 Multiple social media posts have shared a false claim that all Malaysians are entitled to a monthly aid of 100 Malaysian ringgit ($21. 50), which will be credited to their identification cards, also known as MyKad. Posts share false claim about monthly cash assistance for Malaysians.The Malaysian government has dismissed the claim as false -- it only provides an additional 100 ringgit monthly allowance for those already receiving social security payments, who are considered to be in extreme poverty. The claim was shared here on a Facebook page with around 187,000 followers on July 29, 2023. The Malay-language caption translates: "100 Malaysian Ringgit Assistance Credited Into MyKad Every Month for All Malaysians! " The post also shares an image showing several MyKads and text repeating the claim.
A doctored image appearing to show Pakistan's ex-prime minister Imran Khan sitting in a prison cell has been shared thousands of times on Facebook. The original photo, posted by Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, actually shows fellow PTI member Ali Muhammad Khan when he was held on corruption charges. "This photo has dominated social media," reads an Urdu-language Facebook post with more than 52,000 shares. "I sacrifice myself for you, love you my leader. " The doctored picture appears to show Khan behind bars, sitting on the floor and reading the Koran. The Facebook post was shared on August 10, days after Khan -- Pakistan's ex-prime minister and chief of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party -- was jailed for three years over graft charges.
An old video has surfaced in social media posts in India that falsely claim it shows the aftermath of an attack by Muslims at a Sikh temple in Pakistan. The footage is actually from an attack in Afghanistan in 2020 that killed at least 25 people at a Sikh temple in the capital Kabul. AFP has not found reports of a recent attack on a Sikh temple in Pakistan.Gurbani, which means 'the Guru's word' is a hymn from Sikh religious texts, while azan, also spelt 'adhan', is the Muslim call to prayer. The graphic video shows people lying on a carpet covered in debris. 
A photo has surfaced in Chinese-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows a Chinese worker operating a soldering iron by holding it from its heated end. The photo is actually a staged and edited stock photo taken in the United States by photographer Robert Byron. He told AFP the image was a photoshopped composite of a stock photo of the woman with the background image taken at a North Carolina research centre. The photo was posted by an account on X -- formerly known as Twitter -- with more than 50,000 followers. "The evil Western world sanctioned the great CCP regime every day," reads the Chinese-language post from July 31, referring to the Chinese Communist Party. "But the great CCP regime sent a woman to kill the West instantly by using a soldering iron with her bare hands.
Facebook posts touting a brand of barley grass drink have been shared repeatedly with a false claim that it cured the daughter of a popular Philippine broadcaster who was diagnosed with cancer. The radio host -- Anthony Taberna -- told AFP his daughter did not use the product during her treatment. Instead, she underwent chemotherapy and a bone marrow transplant. The Philippines' national drug regulator has also warned the product should not be consumed because of quality concerns. "After 186 long and difficult days, Zoey, the daughter of Anthony Taberna, is now back to normal health," reads a post shared on July 19 on a Facebook page called "Anthony Taberna Family". Taberna is a popular broadcaster, who hosts a radio programme for the Manila Broadcasting Company. 
Social media posts about a major heat wave that baked the US southwest have misleadingly shared an old image of partially melted cars alongside a picture of a withering cactus in july 2023. While the cactus photo was genuinely taken in Arizona in July, the photo of cars was taken in 2018, when the vehicles melted from the heat from a fire at a construction site. "Current state of the heat wave in the United States," reads a Korean-language post shared on EastSideStory, a South Korean forum, on July 31. The post shows two photos -- one of two cars with melted rear bumpers and tail lights and the other of a withering cactus plant. The screenshot with the vehicles contains the logo of local broadcaster SBS and includes a chyron that says: "Mounting damages in the US, where temperatures have been boiling for a month. "
Scientists and engineers have debunked the false Facebook posts that warn using mobile phones during thunderstorms could "attract lightning". The posts surfaced in the Philippines following a powerful typhoon that brought strong winds and heavy rains to the northern part of the archipelago. Experts dismissed the claim and said lightning tended to strike tall, isolated objects. "The storm and winds are strong, along with the lightning," reads a Tagalog-language Facebook post shared in a group with more than 36,000 members. "Let’s all be careful, do not use cell phones outside so it doesn't attract lightning. " 
Pakistan electoral commission dismisses false claim that ex-PM's party was 'delisted'. The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) said it did not remove former prime minister Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) from a list of political parties that will take part in the country's next election, refuting false posts circulating online since July saying the party had been deregistered. Khan was jailed in August and disqualified from standing for office for five years but as of August 15, his party remains listed on the ECP website as registered. 
Video shows bridges and highways in different countries, not 'undersea tunnel in Indonesia'. A video has been viewed more than a million times on TikTok, Instagram and Facebook after it was shared a false claim that it shows an undersea tunnel in Indonesia that connects the islands of Java and Bali. In fact, the video comprises clips and photos of infrastructures outside Indonesia, including Poland, France and China. A spokesperson for the Indonesian government also told AFP in August 2023 that no road links are being planned to connect the two islands. "Made of glass, this 2-kilometre undersea toll road connects Java and Bali," reads the Indonesian-language text superimposed on this video, which was posted on TikTok on July 15, 2023.
A video of a train decorated with a cutout shaped like the dome of a mosque has been repeatedly shared in posts that falsely say Muslims forcibly converted into a "Muslim Express". A spokesperson from Indian Railways told AFP one of its divisions runs these special trains for Muslim pilgrims every year. "Jihadis converted the Hyderabad-West Bengal trains into a Muslim Express," reads the Hindi-language caption to the video posted on August 5, 2023 on X, formerly known as Twitter. "Jihadi", meaning a Muslim holy warrior is often used as a derogative term for Muslims in India. The video shows a train adorned with a cutout of a mosque dome and minarets -- and a banner with Urdu-language text that says "Urs Mubarak". 
A video has been shared thousands of times in Indian social media posts that falsely claim it shows a man being brutally assaulted by police. The posts call for "strict action" to be taken against the perpetrators. But the video in fact shows a scene being shot for a short film, and its creator told AFP the claim is "totally wrong". "Don't know where this video is from, but strict action should be taken against these brutal policemen," reads part of the Hindi-language caption to a video shared here on X, formerly known as Twitter, on August 6, 2023. "The government has instilled so much hatred in people that they have descended into savagery. 
After torrential rainfall triggered flooding and landslides in mainland China in July and August 2023, a video was shared hundreds of times in Chinese social media posts that falsely claimed it showed a flood survivor emerging from a raging torrent caked in mud. The footage in fact shows a Peruvian woman who managed to clamber to safety after being swept away by an avalanche of mud near her home in March 2017. "Even scarier than in the movies, and yet the officials still claim there are no casualties! " reads the simplified Chinese caption of a video posted here on X, formerly known as Twitter, on August 6, 2023. The one-minute 13-second video appears to show a woman covered in mud trying to untangle herself from logs, tree branches and wooden pallets. She eventually manages to free herself from the debris and reach safety, where she is helped by other people. In the background, a current of fast-moving mud continues to sweep debris away.
Three videos have been shared hundreds of times on social media posts along with a misleading claim they all show scenes in July 2023 when Typhoon Doksuri made landfall in China. In fact, two of the clips were taken when past typhoons hit the country in 2017 and 2021. The simplified Chinese caption of the post reads: "After the storm that barely caused any damage in Taiwan arrived in China . . . ," followed by three clips of severe rainstorms lashing buildings and trees and huge waves that battered a shoreline. The post then goes on to suggest the videos show scenes from Jinjiang city in the Fujian province in southeast China. The clips were published on Twitter -- which is being rebranded as "X" -- on July 28 as more than 400,000 people were evacuated before Typhoon Doksuri slammed into the province, bringing colossal waves to coastal areas and strong gusts to the cities, AFP reported.
Health experts say there is no cure for diabetes and no medication or supplements that can prevent the disease, contradicting a litany of false claims made in a Burmese advertisement for a powdered milk product that has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times on Facebook. Experts told AFP only type 2 diabetes -- which is linked to lifestyle factors -- can be prevented, through lifestyle changes such as eating healthier or becoming more physically active. The Burmese-language advertisement was shared in a Facebook post on June 21, 2023, and has since been viewed more than 368,000 times. The video shows a woman stood besides several tins of the product -- a powdered milk drink called "Diaglusure" -- explaining that it can help to prevent diabetes, balance blood sugar levels and help reduce diabetes symptoms.
Scientists have dismissed as "ridiculous" an Australian geologist's claims that the climate crisis is part of the Earth's geologic history as the planet's atmosphere used to have significantly higher levels of carbon dioxide. Climate scientists dismiss Australian geologist's 'ridiculous' carbon dioxide claims. Scientific consensus has firmly established carbon emissions from human activity -- particularly the burning of fossil fuels -- have warmed the planet. A climate professor told AFP the misleading claims appear to refer to prehistoric carbon dioxide levels from when the Earth could not support human life. 
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said 500 Indian rupee ($6) notes with an asterisk or "star" mark in their serial numbers are legal tender, refuting false posts that claim otherwise. The RBI -- India's central bank which maintains sole legal authority over currency in the subcontinent -- said "star series" banknotes had been in circulation since at least 2016. "Since the last 2-3 days these 500 notes with * symbol have started circulating in the market," says a July 25 post on Twitter, which is being rebranded as 'X'. 
A doctored graphic has been repeatedly shared on social media alongside the false claim South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol ranked third on the 2022 list of the "World's 50 Greatest Leaders" by the US-based Fortune Magazine. A spokesperson for the magazine told AFP it has not released a new ranking since 2021. Yoon has not been included in any of the magazine's rankings which began in 2014. "Fortune Magazine selected President Yoon Suk Yeol as number three on its list of the World's 50 Greatest Leaders in 2022," reads the Korean-language claim shared here on South Korean social media platform Naver Band on August 2, 2023. "Our country's reputation is rising rapidly. " The post includes a purported graphic that includes the Fortune magazine ranking logo alongside a photo of Yoon.

A video compilation of AI-generated images that appears to show streets covered in rubbish has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times with a false claim in Thai that they show scenes in Paris. The images' creator has told AFP that they were made using the generative AI tool Midjourney. "This is what the French capital city, Paris, looks like. The dream city. . . now turned into this in reality," reads Thai-language sticker text on a video shared on TikTok on July 31, 2023. The video -- viewed more than 400,000 times -- shows a compilation of images of trash-strewn streets with structures resembling famous Paris attractions such as the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre Museum and the Arc de Triomphe in the background.
Four short-form videos that falsely claim to show Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp reacting angrily to questions from Chinese reporters about South Korean and Chinese football players have been viewed millions of times on YouTube. The questions, however, were added to genuine clips of Klopp at press conferences and Korean-language subtitles mistranslated his answers to give the false impression he is answering them. The clips, which have been viewed more than nine million times in total, were all posted on a YouTube channel called Mr Football between July 15 and July 27, 2023. They all claim to show an exasperated Klopp answering questions from reporters that praise Chinese football players and either belittle or claim Korean players are in fact Chinese.
Social media posts have been shared repeatedly with a false claim that rubbing limes on painful teeth can relieve toothaches quickly. Experts have told AFP the practice is not backed by scientific evidence and that a lime's acidic content could damage teeth.The post goes on to say: "Take a wedge of lime and rub it on the area where it hurts. This will immediately relieve the pain. The citric acid and vitamin C will provide you relief from the pain."
Philippine president's photo misused in false posts saying he 'reinstated capital punishment'.A video that features an image of Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos holding a document with his signature has been viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim he had reinstated the death penalty in the archipelago. But the image actually shows Marcos signing a controversial wealth fund law in July. Several Philippine legislators have filed bills seeking to bring back capital punishment for heinous crimes but none had been enacted into law as of August 9, 2023. This will eliminate all the greedy ones in government," reads the Tagalog-language text on the thumbnail of a YouTube video that has been viewed more than 100,000 times since it was posted on July 30, 2023.
After Australia kicked off the Women's World Cup on home soil in July 2023, a photo was falsely shared in social media posts that claimed it showed the team taking a pre-match picture at the tournament with an Aboriginal flag. But the image was in fact taken before a match at the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 2021. While the Aboriginal flag and the Torres Strait Islander flag are being flown alongside the national flag in Australian stadiums during the World Cup, the Matildas have not -- as of August 8 -- posed with a flag before their matches. "It's a world cup event for Gods Sake, surly they can stand behind the Australian flag, bloody disgraceful if you ask me," reads part of post shared here on Twitter, which is being rebranded as "X", on July 21, 2023. 
Several pictures of women in uniform have circulated in Indian and Pakistani social media posts with a false claim that they show Seema Haider, the Pakistani woman who travelled to India to marry a man she met online. In fact, four of the pictures show Pakistani soldier Samia Rehman, who took part in a UN peacekeeping mission in Congo before becoming an actress, while one photo shows Indian policewoman Usharani Narendra, who was recruited in 1973. Three pictures of a woman in uniform were published on Facebook here on July 15, 2023. "Her aim was to trap the Indian youth in her love and settle in India. 
Social media posts have shared photos and video with a false claim that they show the arrest of Thai pro-democracy activist Anon Numpa in July 2023. The pictures and videos were in fact taken in August 2020 and Anon's lawyer told AFP on August 4, 2023 that his client remained free. "[He's] so outspoken on stage. But when he gets a court warrant, he goes weak at the knees," reads a Thai-language post from July 21 on Twitter, which is being rebranded as "X". The photo shows Anon Numpa leaning forward with his arms held up by two police officers. The post, which has more than 30,000 views, was shared on July 21 by an account that has expressed support for Thailand's monarchy. Anon is a Thai lawyer and pro-democracy activist who gained international attention for leading a Harry Potter-themed protest in 2020 against the Thai monarchy (archived link).
A video has been viewed millions of times alongside the false claim it shows pigs kept by the founder of an Islamic boarding school in Indonesia who was arrested for blasphemy in August 2023. The video in fact misuses photos from unrelated incidents elsewhere in Indonesia. AFP has not found credible reports about pigs on the school campus. They belong to Panji Gumilang," the sticker text also says, referring to a 77-year-old Muslim cleric who heads the school. The 47-second clip, which shows various photos of pigs, has been viewed more than seven million times.
After one of the worst rail accidents in India's history killed nearly 300 people, a video surfaced in posts that falsely claimed it showed police officers and soldiers trying to bump-start a train. The posts appeared to criticise India's "failed" railway system. However, the footage in fact shows the men pushing carriages away from another part of the train after it caught fire due to a suspected battery short-circuit in Telangana state in southern India. An engineer said it was impossible to bump-start the type of train seen in the video. The clip shows a group of men, including police officers and soldiers, pushing a train carriage. The video was shared in similar posts on Facebook and here and here on Twitter -- which is being rebranded as "X".
After South Korea was hit by deadly monsoon rains in July 2023, a photo was repeatedly shared in social media posts that misleadingly claimed it showed South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol at a "party to celebrate the success of flood control efforts". But the photo in fact shows Yoon dining with local merchants during a visit to a major fish market in the southern port of Busan on July 27. "These people are trash bent on destroying the country," reads part of the Korean-language caption of a photo shared on Facebook here on July 30. The photo shows Yoon standing near a table where food has been laid out, he is pictured holding up his hand while the other diners at the table appear to laugh. 
A photo has been shared in multiple Bengali-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows a murderer in the Indian state of Rajasthan transporting his victim's body on the back of a motorbike in June 2023. But the photo in fact shows a person delivering a mannequin in Egypt in May 2023. The photo previously circulated in Egyptian news reports that said the country's interior ministry had investigated and found the mannequin was being taken to a location in the capital Cairo.The photo, which appears to show a human foot sticking out of a sack attached to the back of a motorbike, was shared on Facebook here on June 3, 2023.
Multiple social media posts have shared a false claim that Malaysians above the age of 65 need to undergo an eye check in order to renew their driving licence from 2024. Malaysia's Road Transport Department refuted the claim, saying in late July 2023 that there had been no such change to driving licence requirements for senior citizens. The claim was shared here on Facebook on July 20, 2023. Go to jpj now to get your licence extended at the warga Emas counter. "Warga emas" is a Malay term for "senior citizens", while "jpj" refers to the Malaysian Road Transport Department, which is responsible for issuing driving licences.
A Documentary clip circulating on social media claims vaccines brought to Vietnam by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation led to a massive increase in the number of autism patients in the country as this is false. research shows no link between vaccination and autism, and Vietnamese experts said growing awareness and changes to diagnosis criteria have contributed to more people being identified with the neurodevelopmental disorder. "No autism in Vietnam before Gates," says text over a video shared July 17, 2023 on Instagram. A man in the clip claims Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and his foundation introduced a vaccination program to the Southeast Asian country, leading to a spike in cases. "There's no such thing as autism in 1975, year 2000, year 2001 -- there's no such thing," he says. "Now Vietnam has over a 300 percent rise in autism. "
A video of Indonesian presidential candidate Ganjar Pranowo has been viewed tens of thousands of times in Facebook and TikTok posts that falsely claim it shows him drinking alcohol. The posts surfaced ahead of the February 2024 presidential election in Indonesia, where consuming alcohol is frowned upon by conservative Muslims. The clip actually shows Ganjar drinking a bottle of ice tea. A video, which shows Ganjar taking a sip from a small glass bottle, was posted on TikTok on July 16, 2023. The video attracted more than 4,200 views.The video circulated weeks after Ganjar travelled to the Islamic holy city of Mecca on a hajj pilgrimage -- and ahead of the February 2024 presidential election.
Orthopaedic surgeons say there is no evidence essential oils can help to make someone taller, contrary to claims viewed thousands of times in social media posts about a product purportedly endorsed by a popular Filipino physician. The orthopaedists told AFP that a person's height is determined by genetics and lifestyle, and there are no non-invasive ways for an adult to get taller.The video shows Filipino physician Willie Ong -- who regularly gives medical advice to his tens of millions of followers on Facebook and YouTube -- talking about height. "Do you want to become taller? You can grow taller by one inch to two inches," he says at the beginning of the video while gesturing to a screen that says, "How to increase height up to 2-4 inches".
A video has been viewed thousands of times alongside a false claim it shows the Philippines' first nuclear submarine on a test dive in disputed waters in the South China Sea near the western island of Palawan. The footage is in fact of an underwater vessel owned by the Spanish navy in waters near Cartagena in Spain. A Philippine Navy representative told AFP the country has yet to acquire a submarine of its own. " Manila refers to waters immediately to its west as the West Philippine Sea, parts of which are also claimed by China -- which lays claim to most of the resource-rich and strategically important South China Sea . The clip, which has been viewed more than 5,000 times, appears to show a half-submerged submarine moving through the sea. 
Photos of solar panels dumped in a field have been shared in Facebook posts that falsely claim they were taken following deadly monsoon rains that hit South Korea in July 2023. While authorities say the extreme weather damaged some solar power facilities in the country, reverse image searches found the photos predate the monsoon. They were published in news reports from August 2020 about a landslide that damaged a solar farm in a village. "If you have eyes, Moon Jae-in, look at this," it adds, referring to South Korea's ex-president who pledged to push for carbon neutrality by ramping up the country's supply of renewable energy. 
A striking video of a rocket liftoff that had been filmed from a passenger plane has resurfaced on social media with a false claim it shows the launch of India's unmanned mission to the Moon in July 2023. Old video shows US rocket launch, not India's lunar spacecraft lifting off in 2023. The clip actually shows a rocket lifting off from Cape Canaveral in the United States in May 2021. The person who filmed the footage told AFP it was captured from a flight that was taking him from New York to Cancun, Mexico. The Chandrayaan-3 -- which means "Mooncraft" in Sanskrit -- is an unmanned spacecraft launched on July 14 which India seeks to land on the surface of the Moon.
Health experts dismiss posts touting coral tree leaves as cancer cure. False claims about consuming coral tree leaves to cure cancer have circulated hundreds of times on Facebook in Myanmar, where use of home remedies has soared since medics walked out to protest the military coup. Health experts told AFP there is insufficient evidence to support the claim and more studies are needed to know if coral tree leaves are safe and effective.The post tells the story of a man with liver cancer who was told to go home by his hospital, only to be cured of the disease after taking a remedy made from coral tree leaves. Coral trees, which belong to the genus Erythrina, are known for their bark, leaves and bright red flowers which are used in traditional medicine in India, China and Southeast Asia.
Video shows ferry disaster in Indonesia's Sulawesi waters in 2018, not 'Bali Strait accident in 2023'. A video of a ferry accident has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook with a false claim that it shows a boat incident in Indonesia's Bali Strait in July 2023. But the video is actually from a 2018 ferry accident that occurred off Sulawesi island, in the eastern part of the country. The 30-second video showing a boat with an Indonesian flag about to capsize has been viewed more than 500 times after it was shared here on Facebook on July 9, 2023. "It occurred on Monday morning, July 9, 2023. It was a Gilimanuk-Ketapang crossing ferry. Let's hope that all the passengers are safe," reads the post's Indonesian caption.
A video that shows what appears to be a soldier kicking and pinning down a man has been shared thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows an Indian soldier subduing a "terrorist" in Indian-administered Kashmir. The clip, however, was filmed in Brazil and has previously circulated in reports that say it shows the violent arrest of a teenager for driving without a licence. "In Srinagar, Kashmir a terrorist was pinned down with one kick on his chest by an Indian soldier before the terrorist could remove something from his chest," reads the caption to the video shared here on Twitter -- which is being rebranded as "X" -- on July 16, 2023. The 17-second clip shows a car with a siren light chasing a man on a motorcycle and hitting the bike from behind. A person jumps out of the vehicle and kicks the biker to the ground.
A video has been shared hundreds of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows large chunks of concrete falling from a crumbling bridge in China. But the video in fact shows digitally altered footage of the world's tallest bridge, the Millau Viaduct in southern France. The creator of the video told AFP they had added special effects to the footage. The "50-cents" refers to people in China that social media users suspect are paid to post patriotic comments online. The clip, which has been shared more than 190 times, appears to show chunks of concrete falling from the underside of a tall bridge into the river below.
Video shows anti-vaccine and anti-monarchy protests, not 'Australians' rally for Indonesia president'. A video of a massive street rally has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times after circulating with a false claim that it shows Australians demonstrating in support of Indonesian President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo for resolving an alleged territorial dispute between the two countries. However, the clips actually show unrelated events, including anti-vaccine protests in Australia and New Zealand and anti-monarchy rallies in Australia. AFP previously debunked similar false claims about the purported territorial dispute between Indonesia and Australia. The video was shared here on TikTok on May 14, 2023, where it has been viewed more than 28,000 times.
Photo shows people lining up for burgers at new store, not to meet South Korean president. A cropped photo of people gathered in a street has been shared in Korean-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows young people queuing to meet South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol. But the photo in fact shows people waiting for the opening of US burger chain Five Guys' first store in South Korea. The uncropped version of the photo was used in a news report about the opening on June 26 and clearly shows the crowd lining up outside the burger joint. "As he is so popular among the youth, the ruling party will certainly win the next general election. " The image appears to show a crowd of mostly young people milling about in a street.
A video of a man hitting another person has been shared hundreds of times in Chinese-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows a "black man assaulting a Chinese man" on a subway train in China. Singaporean police told AFP the video was filmed in the city-state in 2021 and the 40-year-old attacker in the video was arrested on charges of public nuisance. The 14-second clip of a man dressed in black punching and kicking another person on the floor of a train was shared on Twitter on July 9, 2023, where it has been retweeted more than 400 times. 
Video shows cars burning in storage facility in Australia, not vehicles torched by French protesters. A video has been shared in multiple social media posts that falsely claim it shows vehicles that were set on fire in a car park by rioters in France. While thousands of buildings and cars were torched in France during days of unrest sparked by the police killing of a teenager on June 27, the video in fact shows a fire at a storage facility in a suburb of Perth, in Western Australia, on April 28.The video, viewed almost 2,000 times, shows stacks of cars being consumed by flames while small explosions can be heard throughout.
After days of intense monsoon rains in India in July 2023, footage of a crocodile wading through a street in a waterlogged residential area was shared hundreds of times in social media posts that falsely claimed it was filmed in Ambala, a city in the northern state of Haryana. But the clip was in fact filmed nearly a year earlier in central Madhya Pradesh state. Local reports say the croc was rescued by a team from Madhav National Park and later released into a lake in the park. The video, which has been shared more than 800 times, was posted on Twitter here on July 10, 2023. The clip, filmed from a higher vantage point, shows a huge crocodile wading through a flooded street while people watch from a rooftop and balcony. Days of intense monsoon rains across northern India rendered many areas inaccessible, with bridges smashed and roads blocked.
Experts dismiss 'impossible' claim that vaccines cause mpox infections.A video of Chinese tycoon Guo Wengui falsely claiming the disease mpox -- formerly known as monkeypox -- is a complication of vaccines has been shared hundreds of times on social media. Multiple scientists told AFP the claim is impossible as no currently available vaccine contains the mpox virus that causes the disease.The post features a 36-second extract from a livestream podcast of Guo published on June 10, 2022. "We had the mpox vaccine before mpox was discovered," he says in the podcast. "Mpox is a complication of the vaccine."
A doctored image has been shared in multiple posts that falsely claim it shows Indonesian President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo and his wife visiting Muslim preacher Emha Ainun Nadjib at a hospital in July 2023. While it is true that the president visited the preacher at a hospital where he was being treated, the picture was in fact an altered photo combining several old pictures unrelated to the visit.A photo that appears to show Indonesian President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo greeting Emha Ainun Nadjib -- also known by his nickname Cak Nun -- as First Lady Iriana looks on was shared in this Facebook post on July 12, 2023."Jokowi and the first lady's visit to see the ailing Cak Nun was an extremely good lesson," the post's Indonesian-language caption partly reads.
A video promoting a purported diabetes supplement has been viewed millions of times after it falsely claimed it could eradicate diabetes symptoms within 40 days without insulin or "Western medicine". Health experts told AFP the claim was deceptive and that there was no evidence it could cure diabetes or other diseases. The claim was posted on Facebook on June 26, 2023. The accompanying video, which has garnered more than 920,000 views, shows a man taking a dissolved effervescent tablet and claiming it can cure diabetes symptoms within 40 days. The post's Burmese-language caption reads in part: "Good news for diabetes patients. Within 10 days, there is no more frequent urination at night. In 20 days, your foot will no longer feel pain and your eyesight will be clearer. In 30 days, there will be no headache and chest pain.
A photo has been shared thousands of times alongside the false claim it shows a heart-shaped wooden sculpture "containing the live, beating heart" of the Hindu god Krishna which is kept in a temple in eastern India. But the sculpture was in fact created by Russian artist Dimitri Tsykalov in 2001, who told AFP his artwork -- part of an installation called Anatomy -- is kept in a Paris art gallery. The claim was shared on Twitter on June 16, 2023 by Shri Aacharya Ji, a self-styled guru with over 137,000 followers on the platform. The post includes a photo of the well-known guru and another that appears to show a wooden heart. "His heart is still safe, which lies inside the wooden statue of Lord Jagannath and beats the same way. 
A video has garnered tens of millions of views after it was shared in misleading posts that claim it shows a poignant moment between martial arts superstar Jackie Chan and his daughter watching his old stunts together. The clip actually shows a movie scene featuring Chan and a Chinese actress. Multiple news reports say Chan does not have a relationship with his real-life daughter.Jackie Chan movie clip misrepresented as tearful moment with real-life daughter. It has racked up over 53 million views in total alongside a similar misleading claim on TikTok and other social media platforms in countries such as Pakistan, the Philippines, Cambodia, the United States, Ghana, Nigeria and Italy.
This is drone footage of a volcano in Iceland, not Mount Mayon in the Philippines. Footage of the mouth of a volcano during an eruption has been repeatedly shared in Facebook posts that falsely say it shows the crater of the volatile Mount Mayon in the Philippines. The video was actually taken by a photographer in Iceland, who flew a drone above the country's Fagradalsfjall volcano to capture its eruption in 2021.A breathtaking clip of lava bubbling out of the mouth of a volcano was shared on Facebook Reels on June 9.The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology said on July 13 a hazardous eruption could possibly happen within days or weeks.
Digitally edited clip shared with false claim that Indian police 'openly shame traffic law offenders'.Multiple tweets and Facebook posts have shared a clip with a false claim that it shows traffic police publicly displaying pictures of people that have broken traffic laws in the southern Indian city of Chennai. However, the person that uploaded the original clip told AFP he had created it with visual effects (VFX). A spokesperson for Chennai police has also told AFP they do not operate such a programme.The tweet features a video that appears to show a person's face along with the text "Crossed Red Signal" and "Fine of 1000".
An altered image that appears to show an advertisement on a Melbourne tram promoting a Sri Lankan opposition politician's visit to Australia has been shared repeatedly on social media. A spokesperson for the Melbourne tram company told AFP the advertisement never appeared on its vehicles as it does not accept political advertisements.
The picture was shared on Facebook here on June 26, 2023.It appears to show a tram advertisement featuring Anura Kumara Dissanayaka, who heads the leftist opposition group National People's Power, alongside Sinhala-language text that reads "public meeting in Melbourne".
Wine extracted from soursop fruit not a proven treatment for cancer. Doctors say wine extracted from the tropical fruit soursop has not been medically approved to treat cancer, refuting false social media adverts for such a product in the Philippines. The archipelago's Food and Drug Administration also told AFP the product has not been tested for safety as of July 13 and should not be consumed. An image showing bottles of "Doc Atoie's Finest Guyabano Wine" was shared on Facebook on February 8. The post's Tagalog caption partly says: "Guyabano Wine 750ML. Helps dissolve or prevent tumours from growing. Helps treat or prevent cancer from worsening. "
Photo shows South Korean honour guard performing in Canada in 2008, not 'in UK in 2023'. An image of several people dressed in Korean traditional clothing has been repeatedly shared alongside a false claim it shows members from a specialised unit of South Korea's military performing in Britain in May 2023. The social media posts also praise President Yoon Suk Yeol for "raising the country's prestige" abroad. The picture is actually more than a decade old and it shows the unit performing at an international festival for military bands in Quebec, Canada in August 2008.The accompanying image appears to show several members of South Korea's traditional honour guard -- a unit of the military that specialises in ceremonial performances using traditional dress and instruments -- playing a Korean wind instrument.
Image of 2021 Afghan evacuees misrepresented as refugees heading to the Philippines. A photo misrepresented as showing refugees from Afghanistan flying to the Philippines has been shared repeatedly on Facebook, as Manila mulls a request from Washington to temporarily host Afghan citizens awaiting resettlement in the United States. The photo was actually taken in 2021 when tens of thousands of Afghans evacuated their country as the US and allied forces pulled out, ending America's longest war.Subic is a town north of the capital Manila where a US military base was positioned until the early 1990s.
After a fishing trawler carrying hundreds of migrants capsized off Greece in June 2023, a video was shared in Pakistani social media posts that falsely claimed it showed survivors of the tragedy being confronted, shot at and sunk by the Greek coastguard in june 2023. But the video has in fact circulated since at least March 2020 in reports about Greek coast guards attempting to force migrants back towards Turkey.The video appears to show Greek coast guards firing into the sea near a dinghy filled with people. The footage also appears to show people on the dinghy screaming and yelling as they are circled and buffeted by the coastguard vessels.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
.Malaysia has had a moratorium on executions since 2018 as the country began debating abolishing the death penalty.a doctor in Malaysia wasn’t executed for giving a COVID-19 vaccine The country has supported COVID-19 vaccination; in 2021, the nation required federal employees to get vaccinated. The Nuremberg Code is a set of principles related to medical experiments on humans. The COVID-19 vaccines are not experimental — they were deemed safe in clinical trials with willing participants.
We found no evidence that North Korea recently evacuated its capital city, Pyongyang. The video shared with the claim was created in April 2017 — but it also included unconfirmed information. The 2017 evacuation reports were attributed to a Russian news source. PolitiFact searched Google and the Nexis news database and found no credible reports that Pyongyang was evacuated in 2017 or on May 18, when the post was shared.No evidence North Korea is evacuating its capital. Claim stems from unconfirmed 2017 report
Mother Teresa did not sell babies, as social media post says. There’s no evidence Mother Teresa sold babies. Two workers at a shelter for unwed mothers run by the order of nuns Mother Teresa founded were accused of selling four children in 2018, 21 years after Mother Teresa died.Mother Teresa died in 1997 and was canonized as a saint by the Catholic Church in 2018.
The Agriculture Department has said the avian flu outbreak in the U. S. is the main contributor to low inventory and high prices. The current chicken and egg shortages trace mainly to an avian flu outbreak in the U.S. that began in early 2022 and was exacerbated by holiday demand and supply chain problem and is not linked to Bill Gates.Other factors are pandemic-related supply chain issues and holiday demand. Over the last decade, Bill Gates has invested in multiple companies, including Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods, that develop plant-based meat alternatives. He has also been a proponent of chicken farming. Since 2020, Gates has held the title of the nation’s largest private farmland owner, per The Land Report. As of 2022, he owned 248,000 acres of farmland across more than a dozen states, but this accounts for less than 1% of the total farmland in the U. S.
Online video shows Russian plane crash from 2021, not the deadly 2023 crash in Nepal.This video shows a 2021 plane crash in Russia, not the 2023 crash in Nepal. A video shared on Facebook shows a plane flying in the distance before it catches fire, turns on its side and then nosedives into trees. An explosion follows, with a burst of flames and billowing  black smoke. Rather, the video showed a prototype military plane that crashed outside Moscow in August 2021, killing three people. We rate claims the video is of the Nepal crash False.
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation not spending $200 million on digital IDs. The foundation is not allocating a specific dollar amount for any one component of its commitment, a spokesperson said.A Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation spokesperson told PolitiFact that Bongino’s claims misrepresent a financial commitment the organization made to build digital public infrastructure in developing nations. The foundation said in September 2022 that it was working with several governments, philanthropic foundations and nongovernmental organizations to commit $1.27 billion toward several global health and development initiatives. 
No, the pope, Putin and Xi didn’t meet to plan world events. Trips by the pope and Chinese President Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan overlapped, but the men weren’t expected to meet. Xi met separately with Russian President Vladimir Putin this week in Uzbekistan. Xi’s trip to Kazakhstan was his first outside of China since the coronavirus pandemic began in 2020, and he said through a translator that he chose Kazakhstan to demonstrate the "deep friendship" between the two countries. Putin is not in Kazakhstan, though he and Xi met in Uzbekistan on Thursday. We rate claims that the pope, Putin and Xi are meeting to "plan world events" False.
While some media outlets have reported that Sri Lanka’s leaders are trying to flee the country because they fear being detained, they haven’t been arrested, and neither have Estonia’s prime minister or several Ukrainian ambassadors. There has been speculation that Sri Lanka’s president is trying to flee the country to avoid being detained, but we found no evidence that he and the other people mentioned in the post have been arrested. 
Joe Biden never said , Biden opposed aspects of the Afghanistan war as vice president, including a 2009 troop surge ordered by Obama.that he was against Afghanistan war from the start.However, it’s incorrect for Biden to say he opposed the war “from the very beginning.” Along with every other senator present, Biden voted to launch the war in the first place, three days after the 9/11 attacks.During a CBS News interview that was primarily about first lady Jill Biden, the president referenced his past stance on the Afghanistan war.
Photos show service members killed in 2017 military plane crash, not 2021 Kabul suicide bombing.These photos show 15 Marines and a Navy corpsman killed in a military plane crash in Mississippi in 2017. A suicide bombing in Kabul on Aug. 26 killed dozens of people, including 13 U. S. service members. The following day, a grid of photos of men in uniform started to spread on social media. "Pray for them," one post said. "Sixteen doorbells rang today. " But these photos are from 2017, when 15 Marines and a Navy corpsman were killed in a military plane crash in Mississippi. ABC News aired the grid of photos reporting on the crash that year.
A viral image of a CNN chyron about Afghanistan that's say peaceful transfer of power is doctored and fake. Kabul, Afghanistan, fell to Taliban power on Aug. 15, and CNN has been updating its website with developing news and grim headlines.It’s a reference to a CNN chyron from August 2020 when the network covered protests in Kenosha, Wis., over the police shooting of Jacob Blake. The screenshot from that broadcast is what’s being shared now on social media — only the background showing Kenosha has been replaced with what looks like a scene from Kabul. 
The email from Fauci is from February 2020, when masks weren’t widely recommended to fight COVID-19. By April 2020, Dr. Anthony Fauci and other leading public health authorities recommended mask wearing to prevent the spread of COVID-19.The email cited in the post was from early in the outbreak, before it was declared a pandemic, when the expert consensus on mask wearing was much different than it is today. Within two months, Fauci and other public health authorities were recommending mask wearing.It’s important to remember the time frame around when Fauci sent the email. It was two weeks after the first U.S. coronavirus case was announced in Washington state, on Jan. 21, 2020, and five weeks after China confirmed the existence of a new virus. 
Elon Musk isn’t endorsing an anti-aging remedy as that video is altered. The footage in the video comes from an April 2022 interview Musk gave while appearing at the TED2022 conference. He didn’t mention shilajit, a tarlike substance found in Himalayan mountain rocks that has been used in traditional, Eastern and Ayurvedic medicine in India and Nepal, according to the Cleveland Clinic. A TikTok account promoting an app to alter videos "where you can make any celebrity say anything" includes other posts with the same footage of Musk appearing to say things that he didn’t. Among them: that Musk loves Angelina Jolie, that he’s "starting to sell the first tickets to Mars" and that Apple CEO Tim Cook "pissed me off. " 
Puppy rescue filmed in India in 2019, not in Turkey or Syria after the recent earthquake.This footage was filmed in India in 2019 after rain caused a house to collapse, trapping a dog’s puppies in the rubble. The recent earthquake in Turkey and Syria has wrought enormous suffering, a soaring death toll and some good news in its wake, such as the Feb. 10 rescue of a 10-day-old baby and his mother who were trapped in the ruins of a building. But a video of a dog desperately trying to reach her puppies is not new. Still, some social media posts have suggested that it’s more footage from the quake’s aftermath. 
WHO vaccine research aimed for contraception, not sterilization. A World Health Organization task force created in the 1970s helped develop a vaccine designed to temporarily prevent the production of a hormone that supports a pregnancy.  Researchers were not directed to create a vaccine that caused permanent sterilization.An obstetrics and gynecology clinical professor told PolitiFact that pregnancy prevention is temporary and reversible. In contrast, sterilization is permanent and irreversible.
Ukraine does not have a nuclear bomb or a “dirty bomb,” according to experts and watchdogs.The country used to have Soviet-era nuclear weapons but returned them to Russia after the Soviet Union collapsed. Ukraine also dismantled or destroyed its nuclear missiles and silos. Its nuclear materials are now used for peaceful purposes.The most recent example came Oct. 23, when Russian defense minister Sergei Shoigu called his counterparts in the United States, the United Kingdom and France to say that Ukraine is preparing a "provocation" with a radiological device known as a "dirty bomb."
Norway sent its military to guard part of the Nord Stream pipeline network as a safety precaution following a series of leaks that European authorities believe were deliberately made. Russia and Western countries have accused one another of sabotaging the pipelines.Norway sent its military to guard offshore oil and gas, not to ‘counter Biden’. An investigation into the leaks continues, and no suspect has been named.
PolitiFact found no corroborated evidence suggesting that ancient, giant human skeletons were found in Ohio. Historical claims that giant skeletons were unearthed in Ohio have been fueled by tall tales that were later contradicted.Researchers haven’t discovered remains of ancient, giant human beings in Ohio. But just in time for spooky season, a popular Instagram post is reviving the long-debunked claim that they did. "When you ask a historian why there are giant human caucasian skeletons in Ohio that predate any known civilizations," read words that hover over a video showing a person mumbling, "I don’t even know. Like, I couldn’t even tell you that. "
A Facebook post said that China’s leader Xi was under house arrest as false  rumors of a coup proliferated on social media over the past week. But there was no credible evidence to support the claim as it traveled across the internet. Xi was out of public view for 10 days, but he reappeared Sept. 27, after this rumor circulated. Xi is expected to be awarded an unprecedented third term as president when the National Congress of the Communist Party of China meets in October.
Old photo of military exercise used to illustrate story about Russia’s war in Ukraine. This photo is from a joint military exercise involving India and Russia in 2017. It doesn’t show recent fighting in Ukraine. The Russian news outlet Pravda recently shared a story on Facebook that claimed the Ukrainian army had been "destroyed almost entirely." But the image is old; it was posted on the website of the Russia news outlet Sputnik in 2017. The joint military exercise involved Indian and Russian armed forces and it was conducted in Russia’s eastern military district from Oct. 19 to Oct. 29, 2017, according to a press release from India’s defense ministry. 
No, this isn’t a video of Queen Elizabeth II ‘feeding Africans’.This video was made in what is now Vietnam nearly 40 years before Queen Elizabeth II was born. The woman in the 1889 film is throwing coins, not food. Queen Elizabeth II’s death has sparked reflection on her seven-decade reign and reinvigorated criticism of the British Empire and colonialism in Africa. But a video spreading on social media doesn’t show the late monarch "feeding Africans."The video shows a woman in a white dress and white hat throwing items to the ground. People at her feet scramble to scoop them up. 
No, this video doesn’t show a Google Street View of Antarctica with a tree-lined landscape.Satellite images of Antarctica show the continent covered in snow with no patches of green landscape anywhere.The video originally came from TikTok and features a user reacting to another video of a woman looking at a map of Antarctica on Google.The woman urges viewers to go on Google and check out the street view for themselves. But the terrain featured in the video isn’t actually in Antarctica.
Virginia allows elective abortions through the second trimester of pregnancy, or about 26 weeks. No, Virginia does not have 'the most liberal abortion laws in the world.' Six states set no limits on when women can have elective abortions. The Guttmacher Institute considered additional aspects of abortion laws and found 11 states to be more protective of the procedure than Virginia.Delegate Dave LaRock, R-Loudoun, recently put Virginia’s abortion laws into a global perspective.We fact-checked LaRock’s claim and found that although Virginia does some of the most lenient abortion laws on the planet, they’re not the most lenient.
Viral image of helicopter lifting tractor does not show NATO ‘resupplying Ukrainian farmers’. A viral photo of a helicopter airlifting a tractor predates Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine. An Indian tractor manufacturer posted it on Twitter in November 2020. The helicopter in the photo is labeled "Indian Air Force. " India is not a member of NATO. An old photo of an Indian air force helicopter hauling a tractor has been recontextualized online amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Thousands of Facebook users are sharing a post that falsely claims the image shows NATO assistance in Ukraine."A ‘Tough’ flight which only Mahindra Tractor can dare dream of @ 11,000 ft," the company wrote in the Nov. 2, 2020, tweet. 
U.S. is making progress on cutting greenhouse  carbon gas emissions when compared to the rest of the world.That protest inspired students across the globe to hold similar demonstrations demanding action from their governments on climate change. The issue remains at the forefront, though measures to address climate change are stalled in Congress. Meanwhile, U.S. Rep. Glenn Grothman, R-Wisconsin, took to the floor of Congress to stake out a view that he says is rarely heard – that the United States is already doing a better job than the rest of the world at addressing the issue. 
No scientific basis for claims of ivermectin’s success in Uttar Pradesh, India that reduce COVID-19 cases . Recorded cases of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, India have fallen, but there is no consensus about why. There has also been questions about data collection in India. There is not conclusive scientific evidence using a randomized controlled study that shows that ivermectin caused cases to fall in Uttar Pradesh. India's national health authorities have recommended against using ivermectin to manage COVID-19 outside of clinical trials.
No, this photo doesn’t show a woman scanning a QR code on a Japanese gravestone. This photo shows a woman scanning a QR code at a memorial in China, but QR codes for headstones have been offered in Japan. That’s because, as India Today reported on Sept. 15, the photo doesn’t show a Japanese headstone. The image has been online since 2015, when Chinese media reported that it showed a woman in Chongqing, China, scanning a memorial to commemorate victims of the Nanjing Massacre and bombing raids in Chongqing during World War II. 
Evidence shows that COVID-19 variants are largely spread among unvaccinated people not vaccinated. The alpha, beta, gamma and delta variants were first detected in unvaccinated populations. Most variants were detected before vaccines were approved for use. Studies show that unvaccinated people are far more likely to spread the delta variant than vaccinated people. A Facebook post authored by someone touting toxicology credentials joined the growing field of inaccurate claims that falsely blame the vaccine for a pandemic that has stretched into a second year. "The delta variant emerged in a largely unvaccinated country," Adalja said, referring to India, where the variant drove soaring case rates starting in the spring of 2021. "The more the virus spreads, the more chance there is for variants to emerge." 
There's no evidence these politicians Haiti, Tanzania and Madagascar were killed over their countries’ refusal of COVID-19 vaccines. Moïse was the only one assassinated, and experts say his death will likely only further hinder the vaccine effort in Haiti, not help it. Ratsiraka was not Madagascar’s president at the time of his death. His last term ended in 2002. Days after Haiti President Jovenel Moïse was assassinated by a group of gunmen in an ambush at his home, conspiratorial posts spread online that claim his death, along with the deaths of other political leaders, came about because their countries "refused" the COVID-19 vaccines.
The post attempts to draw attention to the number of missing children in major countries around the world, but there are a couple of issues with its data. One, these large numbers do not reflect data from 2021. Moreover, the numbers range from 20,000 to 460,000 do not represent children who are currently missing but of children who were reported to be which is a big difference, since most of the children were found.
No, Bill Gates isn’t fighting to keep vaccine ingredients secret and they’re already public.Bill Gates has defended intellectual property rights for COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers, but the ingredients in COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in the United States are already public. But defending intellectual property rights does not mean that Gates is advocating for keeping the ingredients in COVID-19 vaccines secret, as the Facebook post claims. 
This photo doesn’t show Kamala Harris listed as ‘Caucasian’ on her birth certificate. We don’t know if this is actually Kamala Harris’ birth certificate, but it doesn’t list her as “Caucasian.”The document identifies Harris’ mother as Shyamala Gopalan. In the field that says "Color or Race of Mother," Caucasian is typed below. Gopalan was born in what is now called Chennai, India, and moved to California after college to pursue a doctorate in nutrition and endocrinology at the University of California, Berkeley. Under "Color or Race of Father," it says "Jamaican. " Harris’ father, Donald Harris, was born in Jamaica and also migrated to the United States to attend Berkeley.
Kamala Harris did not call Biden a racist during her busing attack and debate. During the 2019 primary debate in Miami, Harris attacked Biden’s record opposing busing in the 1970s.Harris prefaced her remarks by telling Biden: “I do not believe you are a racist.”That’s not what Harris said about Biden. At a June 2019 debate, she said to Biden: "I do not believe you are a racist." Then Harris launched into an attack of Biden’s record opposing busing in the 1970s.
Donald Trump wrong to say U.S. has “one of the lowest mortality rates in the world” from COVID-19. The United States doesn’t have one of the world’s lowest mortality rates from the coronavirus. No fewer than 15 advanced, industrialized nations currently have a lower mortality rate, as do a host of other countries, including Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Russia, Turkey, Argentina, and India. Another measurement called the case-fatality rate, which Trump incorrectly referred to as the “mortality rate,” also doesn’t place the United States at or near the bottom internationally.
Facebook Messenger video falsely claims hot lemon juice can kill the coronavirus. There is no scientific evidence that lemon can treat or prevent the coronavirus. Health officials have debunked the claim. There is no evidence that drinking hot lemon juice kills COVID-19. Health officials have debunked the hoax, and a similar version has been shared in India and Italy.The video comes from a man who promotes alternative health information on YouTube. To prevent coronavirus infection, health officials advise people to wash their hands, avoid touching their face and disinfect surfaces in their home.
We found no evidence that China produces 90% of the world’s carbon emissions and This statement rates False.Thunberg and Soros have been used in multiple false posts. We debunked this one that said Thunberg posed with Soros and ISIS.For 2018, it found that China was responsible for about 30% of the total emissions, putting China at the top. The United States produced about 14% of the emissions, the European Union produced about 9%, and India 7%. The vast majority of countries produced less than 1%.
Post on Obama being furious about photo of him holding a ‘pro-Muslim’ book is fake. There is no evidence and no credible news reports that supports the claim that President Obama was "furious" that the photo was taken. The photographer was a known member of the press and wasn’t secretly "in the right place at the right time.". The characterization of the book is also wrong. "The Post American World" is not a Muslim’s perspective on a future world with a toppled America, but is about "the rise of the rest" with the growth of countries like China and India. 
Clinton says almost a half-million immigrants still eligible for DACA, particularly Asians. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has presented herself as an advocate for immigrants, saying she’ll push for immigration reform within her first 100 days in the Oval Office and promising to continue the deferred deportation plans of President Barack Obama. On Aug. 15 — four years to the day since immigration officials began accepting Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals applications — she published a post on Medium directed to those who have applied for the deportation relief program and to those who haven’t. "In America, the place of your birth should never be a barrier that stops you from reaching your God-given potential  —  that’s what makes our country great, and that’s the promise I’m going to fight to fulfill," Clinton wrote.
Michelle Obama: Research shows educating girls can lift a nation's economy.Among the causes First Lady Michelle Obama has championed during her time in the White House is improving the lot of girls and women worldwide. About a year ago, Obama helped kick off Let Girls Learn, an interagency effort focused on educating adolescent girls. "Studies from the World Bank show that one extra year of secondary school can increase a girl's future income by 15 to 25 percent," Obama said in an interview with a U. S. Agency for International Development publication. "And we know that when girls are educated, they are less likely to contract HIV, more likely to delay childbearing and vaccinate their children, and have lower maternal and infant mortality rates. Research even shows that sending more girls to school can boost an entire country’s GDP. "
Sanders said that Clinton supported and continues "to support fracking. " As secretary of state, Clinton supported and promoted fracking around the world. As a 2016 candidate, her support comes with conditions such as local choice, stronger environmental regulation and chemicals."The frack return fluids are full of really nasty materials in addition to the additives, and the precise nature of this toxic brew is seldom known," he said. "Clinton's focus on just the additives is misguided."
Sanders said, "In America, we pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. " When it comes to brand-name drugs, which yield the highest profit for the pharmaceutical industry, studies support Sanders' claim -- although not always on a drug-by-drug basis. In addition, the differences in price can be dramatic because the U. S. health care system is so splintered, and Medicare is prohibited by law from using its market share to bargain for lower prices. We found one study comparing the United States and Canada that found exceptions for generic drugs, where the profit margin is much lower and which make up a much smaller share of prescription drug spending.

15 of 20 most polluted cities in world are in India, China, says Jim Webb.Former Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va. , spent most of the first Democratic presidential debate in the shadow of frontrunners Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. But he got in a few shots here and there. During the debate, Webb discussed the issue of climate change, arguing that the United States can’t go it alone. "We are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here," Webb said. "We've done a good job in this country since 1970. If you look at China and India, they're the greatest polluters in the world. Fifteen out of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries. We need to solve this in a global way. It's a global problem. "
Sanders said that America has more people in jail than any other country. It’s likely he means the population in state and federal prisons, along with those in local jails. The latest federal census found more than 2.2 million people behind bars in the United States. A research center in England reports that China ranks second with about 1.65 million prisoners. But the Chinese figure fails to include many thousands of people in detention centers, and we don’t know how many that would be.
Paul said "Hillary Clinton’s State Department sent three comedians to India on the ‘Make Chai Not War tour. " The State Department, while under the leadership of Clinton, did send three Indian-American comics to India in early 2012 as part of a regular cultural exchange program intended to stem religious prejudices and encourage tolerance. The State Department didn’t come up with the name, but the show was indeed called "Make Chai Not War. "
Fabricated story about Vladimir Putin banning 5G in Russia repackaged on social media. A recent blog post leans into both 5G fears and support for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, claiming he has banned the wireless technology.  But the post’s byline, Michael Baxter, is familiar from the website Real Raw News, which habitually posts fabricated stories.A Facebook post sharing the blog post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.The World Health Organization has said there is no proven causal link between adverse health effects and wireless technologies.
No evidence that Chinese immigrants at U.S. southern border are ‘troops’.The number of Chinese immigrants encountered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the southern border with Mexico has risen sharply in recent months, in part because China recently reopened after strict border closures during the COVID-19 pandemic, experts said. The vast majority of the Chinese migrants are single adults, and likely young men, but that is not proof that China is sending troops disguised as migrants. Experts said it’s common for migrants from any country to be what the video calls "military age."
This is wrong that  USDA confirmed that it isn’t y testing mRNA in meat or poultry, the food products it oversees, and that there are no mRNA vaccines approved or under trial for cattle in the U.S. The FDA confirmed that it doesn’t test for mRNA in milk.In the clip, McCollough misrepresents a study that used molecules from cow’s milk to stabilize mRNA that was later injected into the intestines of mice to eventually elicit an immune response. The research did not show, as McCollough claimed, that mRNA can be ingested via milk and cross the gastrointestinal barrier into the bloodstream.
Obama was not arrested or indicted in relation to the ongoing trial, and prosecutors have not indicated his campaign knew about the foreign influence scheme. The fugitive in the case is a Malaysian national. The post was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
There’s no universally accepted definition of "political prisoner," but human rights and international law experts told PolitiFact that they would not classify Trump a political prisoner.Trump was not detained. He delivered remarks in Florida just hours after he was arraigned in New York on April 4.Political prisoners are targeted specifically for their political beliefs or activities and are often denied due process. They are frequently subjected to torture and mistreatment, experts said.
There’s no zombie virus outbreak on a train in China. This video shows a themed event in Indonesia intended to lure young commuters to use public transportation. It’s based on the horror movie "Train to Busan."A reverse-image search of a frame grab from the video led us to this article written in Malay, a language spoken in Indonesia and other countries. The same red-shirted zombie from the Instagram video can be seen in a photograph atop the article. If zombies on a train sounds like a good movie plot, that’s because it already was — the popular 2016 South Korean horror movie "Train to Busan" was set on a passenger train overrun by zombies. The Indonesian article describes an event called "Train to Apocalypse" that was held at a light rail station in Kelapa Gading, Jakarta, and was based on "Train to Busan. .
Changes to large-scale weather and climate change are caused by greenhouse gas emissions and other factors, not weather modification patents, Diamond said. "The growth in carbon dioxide from human emissions is causing an unnatural spike in CO2 that would in nature take about 20,000 years to accomplish. " The American Meteorological Society says that in the past half century, the leading cause of climate change, including rising Earth and ocean temperatures, rising sea levels and more powerful storms, is human activity that produces greenhouse gases. Most of the world’s scientists agree that climate change is driven by greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere from human activity. The gases, notably carbon dioxide, are produced when fossil fuels such as coal and oil are burned for energy.
TikTok hasn’t been banned in the U.S.Tweets making that false claim were posted the same day that TikTok Chief Executive Officer Shou Zi Chew testified before Congress, as scrutiny mounts over possible national security risks linked to the app.A TikTok ban could happen, but it hasn’t happened yet.But experts told PolitiFact that a ban wouldn’t prevent the Chinese government from accessing sensitive data about U.S. social media users, because similar data from other apps would remain available for purchase from third-party brokers. 
A United Nations resolution titled "2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development" laid out 17 development goals to help countries tackle things such as poverty, inequality and climate change. It did not create  laws governing Agenda laws 2030 to enable governments to remove citizens from polluted land and force them to live in a smart city. The resolution mentions neither thing. Smart cities is a term describing an urban-planning concept in which cities use internet technology for things such as improving traffic flow or measuring air quality.
15,000 protesters have not been sentenced to death in Iran, despite viral posts.One protester was sentenced to death on Nov. 13 after being accused of setting a government building on fire. Most of Iran’s parliamentarians called on the judiciary to decisively punish arrested protesters. Iran’s judiciary, not its parliament, is in charge of convicting people. More than 14,000 people have been arrested for protesting in Iran, after the alleged police killing of a woman arrested for allegedly wearing her headscarf improperly. Iran has a well-documented history of using the death penalty against protesters.
Ukraine does not have a nuclear bomb or a “dirty bomb,” according to experts and watchdogs. The country used to have Soviet-era nuclear weapons but returned them to Russia after the Soviet Union collapsed. Ukraine also dismantled or destroyed its nuclear missiles and silos. Its nuclear materials are now used for peaceful purposes. Experts and watchdogs say Ukraine has neither a nuclear bomb nor a "dirty bomb." Ukraine used to have nuclear weapons but it transferred them to Russia after the Soviet Union collapsed and dismantled or destroyed its nuclear missiles and silos. The nation’s nuclear materials are now used for peaceful purposes.
Cows emit methane into the atmosphere by belching as a result of a fermentation process in their stomach.Bill Gates and AOC never said cows emitted more pollution than cars. Neither Bill Gates nor Rep. Cars emit carbon dioxide by burning fuel for energy. While methane is nearly 30 times more potent than carbon dioxide in contributing to climate change, it breaks down in the atmosphere after 12 years. Carbon dioxide remains in the atmosphere for several hundreds of years.
China’s government did not say it would shoot down House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s plane. The statement came from a commentator for a Chinese newspaper. • China’s government said Monday that its military would "not sit idly by" if Pelosi visits Taiwan.With tensions running high over a potential visit to Taiwan by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who-said-what misinformation is spreading on social media.China has strenuously warned against such a visit, and said its military would "not sit idly by" if it were to happen, Reuters reported Aug. 1. On July 31, as The New York Times reported, a Chinese air force spokesman, without specifying dates, said his country’s "fighter jets would fly around Taiwan to demonstrate its ability to defend its territory."
Since President Joe Biden took office, oil production has risen both on federal lands and on U. S. lands overall. Overall domestic oil production in 2021 came close to a record high. Biden never tried to bar all domestic drilling for oil, which  driving gasoline prices higher.. He did try to pause future leasing on federal lands, but this was blocked by a court. No president has the authority to stop drilling on private lands. And presidents have little control over gasoline prices, which are determined by the global market.
Although the speeches highlighted in the Instagram post bear some similarities, they’re not identical and were not delivered months apart. The speeches were delivered two days apart, and the post omitted where they diverged. Biden didn’t give the 'same exact speech' months apart. The post, which was viewed more than 900,000 times, was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
A clip from the video game Arma 3 is being mischaracterized in Social media posts which shows Russian tanks getting destroyed which is wrong. It can sometimes be difficult to discern what information on social media about the war in Ukraine is credible, and what’s not. A recent Facebook post shared a video featuring combat scenes and alleged that it is footage of a "Russian tank column totally destroyed by attack helicopter."The claim that a video shows a Russian tank column totally destroyed by an attack helicopter is wrong. 
Dr. Anthony Fauci did not indicate at any point in a 90-second comment that lockdowns should be used as a tool of coercion. He was specifically talking about vaccine efficacy and uptake in China, where there is an ongoing lockdown. A social media post misleads by showing a truncated version of a comment from Dr. Anthony Fauci that is missing context.In his 90-second reply, he talked specifically about vaccine efficacy and uptake in China, where there is an ongoing lockdown.
No, this video doesn’t show the China Eastern Airlines plane before it crashed. The footage does not doesn’t show any real plane crash. The clip is a flight simulation video of an Ethiopian plane crash that occurred in Kenya in 2019.Communication with the crew couldn’t be established before the airliner crashed, and there are still a lot of unknowns about what led to the disaster. An investigation is underway."This is not exactly what happened, this is only a simulated flight crash for Ethiopian Airlines Flight ET302," the video’s caption says. 
Democratic group’s false attack on Wis GOP Sen Ron Johnson over outsourcing to China misleading.The attack cites only Johnson’s vote for the GOP 2017 tax cut law, which contained many provisions, including broad based income tax cuts for individuals, as well reductions in rates corporations pay on some foreign earnings. A vote for a law with many provisions does not indicate support for each provision. Experts say there is no clear evidence that the law, which has no provision specifically for China, led U. S. companies to move jobs to China. 
There are no U. S. run biological weapons labs operating in Ukraine so russia is not taregtin them. The U. S. Defense Department and the Ukraine Ministry of Health have had a partnership since 2005 to improve public health laboratories and prevent the threat of outbreaks of infectious diseases. That effort is part of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, which began in 1991 to reduce the threat of existing weapons of mass destruction programs in former Soviet Republics.
There is no evidence that China “created” the virus. There is no scientific consensus on how the virus originated, but researchers believe it could have originated naturally or from an accident in a lab.To back up McCormick’s claim, his campaign cited an August 2021 memo from the U.S. Office of the Director of National Intelligence that summarized the views of U.S. intelligence agencies on the origin of COVID-19. The memo laid out the prevailing hypotheses, but did not make any finding that China created the virus.
No, this isn’t footage of China launching a fake sun into space.A nuclear fusion reactor in China known as an “artificial sun” recently set a record for sustained high temperatures, but this happened indoors. Footage circulating online of a glowing orb rising in the sky actually shows a rocket launch in the country, not a fake sun. A video that’s being shared on social media shows a crowd of people gathered on a beach and holding their phones in the air to record a glowing orb rising in the distance. 
No evidence toxic masks are being sent by the Amazon, but watch out for ‘brushing’ scam.  We found no evidence of toxic masks sent in unsolicited packages from Amazon. There is a common scam called “brushing,” in which Amazon sellers send unsolicited packages to real addresses, so the sellers can then post fake reviews to boost their sales. If you receive a package you didn’t order, you should report it to Amazon and consider changing your password. You do not have to pay for or return the items. If you’re concerned about the contents, throw the package out or alert authorities.
An Instagram post misleadingly claimed that cargo ships "can’t get into port" because of Donald Trump’s executive order 13959 which is wrong. That 2020 order restricted certain investments in Chinese companies. It did not prohibit goods from being brought from other countries to the U.S. The backlog is caused by numerous factors, including surges in consumer demand amid labor shortages.The backlog is caused by numerous factors, including surges in consumer demand amid labor shortages. Trump’s order only restricted U. S. investment in certain Chinese companies. It did not prohibit goods from China or other countries being brought to the U. S.
A TikTok video falsely claims that the "Norfolk naval base has been taken by NATO," the alliance of countries primarily from Europe and North America.In July, NATO and U.S. military leaders announced that NATO’s joint command at Naval Station Norfolk, the first such headquarters in North America, was fully operational.The alliance has not taken over the Norfolk naval base, a NATO official said.A Defense Department spokesperson also told fact-checkers that the Pentagon still has the same capabilities at Naval Station Norfolk as it always has.
No, this video doesn’t show Nigerian students fleeing a COVID-19 vaccine.The video from May 2019 shows students fleeing from a tear gas canister exploding at a school in Nigeria not running from  COVID-19 vaccine.A years-old video that shows students in uniform dropping from a second-story and then running away from a building is again gaining traction after being shared on Facebook, but the description of the footage is inaccurate. It was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
Court documents show that some of the more than 430 people charged with crimes related to the Jan. 6 riot at the U. S. Capitol brought guns onto Capitol grounds or stashed them away while staying in Washington. Many defendants used other weapons such as clubs, pepper spray, bear spray and flagpoles. Court records and news reports show that many insurrectionists were armed and have guns , and several were charged with having firearms at the Capitol riot on jan 6 . In addition, rioters had weapons other than firearms and used them during the attack.
Despite what video implies, Joe Biden didn’t confuse son with grandson.Joe Biden has committed his share of gaffes, dating back to well before he became president.Biden has a son named Hunter, but despite the impression the video might leave, Biden was referring in that speech to his grandson who goes by the name Hunter Biden, not to his son. Biden was speaking in his home state of Delaware at a Memorial Day service on May 30, the day before the holiday. He opened his remarks with a reference to Hunter and noted that earlier in the day, a memorial Mass was held for his late son Beau who died from brain cancer in 2015. 
No, Biden executive order did not allow China access to U.S. power grid.Biden suspended a Trump order barring the use of Chinese electrical equipment in the U. S. power grid, pending a 90-day review. However, the prohibitions against Chinese equipment remain in place. There is no evidence that Chinese interference contributed to the power outage in Texas.Biden suspended part of a Trump order forbidding the use of Chinese electrical equipment in the U.S. power grid. However, the prohibitions remain in place. There is no evidence that Chinese interference caused the Texas power outage. 
China did not orchestrate voter fraud in the 2020 election. There is no credible evidence that voter fraud affected the outcome of the 2020 presidential election, according to federal agencies, state election officials and numerous court decisions.John Ratcliffe, director of national intelligence, wrote in a memo that intelligence analysts failed to capture the full extent to which China interfered in the election. But he didn’t “confirm” any reports that China orchestrated voter fraud.
A 2019 report by the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group examined consumption-based carbon emissions in its network of cities in six categories, including food, travel and clothing. The report highlighted progressive and ambitious targets to reduce emissions, but said it was not advocating that cities meet the ambitious targets. We could find no evidence that any U. S. cities have agreed to ban meat, dairy, new clothes or private cars.Clothing and textiles made up about 4% of emissions in C40 cities, while private transport made up about 8%. The report said interventions could be consumers limiting their clothing purchases and buying fewer new cars.
The DNC servers were never missing of pakistani gentleman. The DNC provided the FBI with a copy of their server, rather than the original hardware, but Comey testified that the evidence was an appropriate substitute. Awan, the "Pakistani gentleman" in the news, never worked for the DNC. Conservative news outlets suggested he had stolen a House Democratic server, but the U. S. Attorney’s Office found no evidence of such theft.
Outdated information from the United Kingdom government has been taken out of context to purport that pregnant women should not receive the COVID-19 vaccine.This information is based on a December 2020 report. At the time, there was limited research available on the vaccine’s effects during and after pregnancy.The U.K. government currently strongly recommends women who are pregnant or breastfeeding get vaccinated against COVID-19.
COVID-19 vaccines did not cause a 366% increase in miscarriages, as article claims.There is currently no evidence of an increase in miscarriages as a result of COVID-19 immunization. This claim was made based on United Kingdom data. Health officials in the U. K. said the figures are being taken out of context. The article doesn’t account for the increase in the vaccination rates over time, or the average number of miscarriages that occur naturally.This is misleading and inaccurate. First, the image does not indicate that the figures the article cites come from the U.K., not the U.S., even though the widely circulated version of the post we found included the Instagram handle @antimaskNYC, an account that also shared the post. 
The data shows the rate of hospitalization and death is “substantially greater” in unvaccinated people compared with vaccinated people, according to the U. K. Health Security Agency so COVID shots are not an abysmal failure.  In England, the rate of a positive COVID-19 test is higher in vaccinated people aged 30 and older, compared with unvaccinated people. However, that is expected in a country with very high vaccine coverage.
A U. K. health official misspoke when he said, “around 60% of the people being admitted to hospitals with covid have been double vaccinated ” and He later issued a correction. Partly or fully vaccinated individuals made up about 40% of people who were hospitalized in the U. K. between February and July. Public health officials said that’s due to the U. K. ’s high rates of vaccination and the spread of the delta variant. The vaccines are still effective at reducing the number of infections that result in hospitalization.
No evidence that United Kingdom is preparing for lockdown over coronavirus After Hundreds Of New Cases.Only about a dozen coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the United Kingdom.British officials are monitoring the situation but have not taken steps toward any lockdown.There are fewer than 10 coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom and no signs that travel or other aspects of life in Britain have been shut down by the virus.But the data doesn't indicate any such panic in the U.K.
Between June 2022 and April 2023 in Wales, 10 newborns under 28 days old developed myocarditis associated with infections from enterovirus, some of the most prevalent viruses in the world, according to the World Health Organization and the Welsh minister for health and social services. A WHO spokesperson told PolitiFact that at this stage, there is no reason to believe the increase in myocarditis cases among newborns was linked to COVID-19 vaccines. Health authorities are investigating the situation further, including exploring population immunity and evaluating the pandemic’s impact on how infections circulate.
Claim that Klaus Schwab’s daughter  Nicole Schwab warned of climate lockdowns is from misinformation site.We found no evidence that World Economic Forum founder Klaus Schwab’s daughter Nicole Schwab warned of imminent "permanent climate lockdowns. " The viral headline originated on a site known for publishing misinformation, and the article was written by a person known for spreading conspiracy theories and false claims.The headline appeared to promise an incendiary quote from Nicole Schwab, daughter of the World Economic Forum’s founder and executive chairman Klaus Scwab. But the article that followed did not deliver such a quote. It included quotes from a June 2020 panel discussion with Nicole Schwab, a member of the World Economic Forum’s executive committee.
Bird flu is not a pandemic, and Bill Gates didn’t say children are being targeted. An avian influenza outbreak has killed tens of millions of wild birds and poultry worldwide since 2020; the virus has also been found in some mammals. In March, after an outbreak among poultry at a farm in England, two people tested positive for the bird flu. Neither had any symptoms and have since tested negative. The U. K. Health Security Agency said the risk of bird flu in humans is low, and there’s no evidence of person-to-person transmission. It is monitoring the virus. Microsoft Corp. co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates in October 2022 took part in a simulation designed to help leaders prepare for future outbreaks. In it, a fictional virus disproportionately affected children.
Russia has lost as many as 25,000 soldiers in its invasion of Ukraine, with tens of thousands more injured, according to estimates from U. K. and U. S. officials. Russia’s economy will contract as much as 6% this year mostly because of international sanctions, the country’s central bank predicted. Thousands of educated professionals have fled the nation after the war began, according to news reports. Despite Putin’s claim, Russia has lost plenty in Ukraine invasion
A video of a parade featuring an image of Jesus Christ carrying the cross has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook and YouTube in posts that falsely claim it shows an Easter celebration in Saudi Arabia in 2023. The clip was actually taken during a Palm Sunday procession in Guatemala in early April 2023.The video was shared here on Facebook on April 9, 2023, on Easter Sunday.The one-minute and 30-second clip shows a crowd taking part in a procession with a statue of Christ an ornate palanquin.
A clip has been viewed hundreds of times in social media posts that misleadingly claim it shows Kurdish-speaking Yazidi women being auctioned off by the Islamic State group in Syria. While Yazidi women were sold into sexual slavery or as jihadists' "wives", the clip in fact shows a piece of performance art in Iraq. Its director, Aryan Rafiq, told AFP the performance was held in Arbil market in Iraq in March 2023.The 20-second video, which has been viewed more than 450 times, appears to show a crowded market place where several women wearing burqas are chained together. A man appears to inspect the women by lifting each of their veils in turn.
A clip has been shared multiple times on social media in Nigeria with a claim that it shows a golden motorcycle given to Portuguese football star Cristiano Ronaldo by the ruler of Saudi Arabia But this is false. the bike is owned by a Saudi motorcycle enthusiast and was not presented to Ronaldo as a gift. A 27-second TikTok clip published with the post shows a golden motorcycle parked in a hall with a Saudi Arabian flag in the background. The claim also appeared elsewhere on Facebook.
Social media users have shared a false claim that Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim's official visit to Saudi Arabia in March 2023 was not accorded proper media coverage, with only two news outlets reporting on it. In fact, four Malaysian media organisations, which were part of the press pool travelling with Anwar, reported on his trip. At least two Saudi news outlets published reports of the Malaysian leader's visit on a daily basis. A photo of Anwar and two ministers at a press conference, with two microphones circled in red, was shared in a Facebook post here on March 25, 2023.The post has been shared more than 190 times.
A video of FIFA president Gianni Infantino has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times after it was shared with a false claim that the world FIFA president has banned Israel from playing in the U20 World Cup in 2023. The video, which was recorded in 2019, actually shows Infantino delivering a message to the Indonesian Football Federation (PSSI) ahead of a special congress to elect a new leadership. The video in the misleading posts has been edited to add fake Indonesian-language subtitles that do not reflect Infantino's speech. The video of FIFA president Gianni Infantino giving a speech was published here on YouTube on April 2, 2023.The three-minute 36-second video has been viewed more than 102,000 times.
A photo of men lying on the floor with their hands tied behind their backs has been shared repeatedly in social media posts misleadingly claiming it shows a police raid at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque in April 2023. However, the photo has previously circulated in reports about a similar incident at the mosque one year before.Global criticism and concern mounted after Israeli police clashed with Palestinians on April 5 inside the Al-Aqsa mosque, Islam's third-holiest site, sparking a military exchange of rockets and air strikes.
Footage of a vehicle engulfed in flames has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely link it to a deadly bus crash in Saudi Arabia in March 2023. The video has in fact circulated online for years in reports about a fatal accident on the same road in Saudi Arabia six years earlier.The umrah is a pilgrimage that can be undertaken at any time distinct from the hajj, which takes place once annually and usually draws millions from around the globe.The video, which has more than 220,000 views, shows an overturned vehicle engulfed in flames and a thick plume of smoke.
Twitter users claim footage of snow falling on camels in Saudi Arabia shows the first such occurrence in 100 years, proving global warming is a "hoax" as this is false.the video is from 2021, and experts say such weather has been reported numerous times in recent years and does not change the scientific consensus on climate change.The video shows a desert landscape at night with snow falling on camels.But the footage is not new -- a reverse image search indicates Gulf Today, an English-language newspaper in the United Arab Emirates, first published it in February 2021.
A photo of Wadi al-Salam cemetery in Najaf, Iraq, was shared on social media alongside a partially false claim that it is "the world's largest cemetery" which "covers 600,000 hectares". The post has been liked tens of thousands of times. While reputable sources have referred to the cemetery as the world's largest, the necropolis is estimated to cover a significantly smaller area: between 600 to 1,000 hectares.Some historians estimate that more than six million souls rest at the 14-century-old cemetery, mostly Iraqi but also Iranian and Pakistani Shiites, the latest AFP report said.
A photo of Cristiano Ronaldo has circulated in Facebook posts with a false claim that he says he loves Islam while giving an interview in Dubai -- the latest in a wave of misinformation targeting the football star. While Ronaldo said during the interview that he loved Dubai, he did not mention Islam.The photo shows Ronaldo in a white T-shirt on stage with a woman wearing a hijab.Misinformation about the Portuguese football player has exploded following his transfer to Saudi club Al Nassr.
The video, which has more than 260,000 views, shows deep ravines in landscape, with roads and buildings on either side.A video showing long rifts in the earth has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows a long crack in Turkey following a massive earthquake in February 2023. In fact, the footage has circulated on Douyin, China's version of TikTok, since December 2021. Satellite images from Google Maps show identical scenes in northern China.An earthquake rocked Turkey's southern Hatay province and northern Syria on February 20, killing six people.
A photo of a girl rescued from the rubble of a building is circulating in Facebook posts that falsely claim it was taken following a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake that struck Turkey and Syria on February 6 2023. The picture actually shows a child discovered alive 91 hours after a quake hit the Turkish city of Izmir in October 2020.The photo shows a girl covered in dust trapped in rubble appearing to reach for someone's hand.AFP reported on the girl's dramatic rescue, when she was pulled from rubble 91 hours after the quake hit.
A disk-shaped cloud filmed over Bursa in Turkey on January 19, 2023, was widely reported and described as a “rare phenomenon”. About three weeks later, Facebook posts began linking the cloud to the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Turkey-Syria, falsely claiming it was caused by a former American military project called HAARP, The claim is false. experts told AFP Fact Check it is impossible for HAARP to disrupt the weather in such a way that it creates clouds.
A TikTok video of an upset toddler trying to soothe a baby is circulating on Facebook claiming the pair’s mother died in the Turkey-Syria earthquake that has killed more than 35,000 people, among them children and parents. The claim, however, is false: the video predates the earthquake and was first published by a TikTok account that shares lighthearted videos of children.The video has been viewed more than one million times, with many comments expressing heartache for the children.A 7.8 magnitude earthquake, followed by a major aftershock, struck southeastern Turkey and neighbouring Syria on February 6, 2023.
An old dashcam video of a shaking highway has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times posts that falsely claim it shows the devastating earthquake in Turkey and neighbouring Syria in February 2023. But the video clip was actually filmed in the Japanese capital of Tokyo and was previously shared in a YouTube post about the massive earthquake that rocked the country in 2011.The footage -- filmed from inside a vehicle -- shows a highway visibly swaying from an earthquake.On February 13, officials and medics said 31,643 people had died in Turkey and 3,581 in Syria from the 7.8-magnitude tremor, bringing the confirmed total to 35,224.
A video of a couple pleading that their son be spared from execution has been circulating in Facebook and TikTok posts that falsely claim they are the parents of the suspect in the killing of a Filipino worker in Kuwait. But the clip, viewed tens of thousands of times, shows the parents of a man executed in Iran in connection with the country's protest movement following a trial condemned as "unfair" by the United Nations.The 47-second clip has been viewed over 5,000 times since it was shared on Facebook on January 28, 2023.Jullebee Ranara was a domestic worker found dead in Kuwait on January 21, the Philippines' Migrant Workers Secretary Susan Ople told Philippine media.
A video of strong waves hitting at U.S beach has been viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows a tsunami hitting the Syrian coast following a devastating earthquake that shook the war-torn country and neighbouring Turkey in February 2023. The clip has in fact been shared online as early as January and shows high surf at Mission Beach in the US city of San Diego.The accompanying five-second clip appears to show waves crashing over a sea wall and lapping at nearby buildings.
After Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum renamed a district "Hind City", social media posts in Hindu-majority India falsely claimed the move was to honour India and Hindus. The Dubai government's media office told AFP that the sheikh renamed the district in honour of his wife, Sheikha Hind bint Maktoum.The name change was widely reported by local and international media outlets -- including the Emirates News Agency, Gulf News and India's ANI news agency -- none of which said it was intended to express gratitude to India or Hindus.An Arabic language professor confirmed that Hind was a "very popular female name in the Arab world for over 16 centuries".
Social media users are claiming a dog pictured covered in mud is a rescue animal that saved lives after an earthquake struck Turkey and Syria on February 6, 2023 as this is false. the image shows Tryon, a canine who helped search for victims after a 2014 mudslide in the US state of Washington.Similar posts circulated on other platforms, including Instagram and Twitter. Some credited the dog in the photo with saving "dozens of lives."But the dog shown in the picture shared online was involved in a rescue effort that took place almost nine years ago and thousands of miles away in Oso, Washington.
Social media users across platforms and countries are claiming a video shows a nuclear power plant exploding after an earthquake devastated Turkey and Syria on February 6, 2023 as this is false.  the footage shows a 2020 explosion in Beirut, Lebanon.But the video circulating online does not show the disaster, as one user who shared it later acknowledged.The explosion destroyed Beirut's port and wiped out neighborhoods, killing more than 200 people and wounding 6,500 others.The blast was not nuclear, however. It was triggered by a fire in a warehouse that detonated hundreds of tons of highly explosive ammonium nitrate, a material in fertilizers, that had been stored for years.
TikTok and Facebook posts viewed tens of thousands of times have shared images that they falsely claim show the suspect in the killing of a Filipino worker in Kuwait in late January. The photos actually show an Iranian protester executed in early January following a trial that was criticised as "unfair" by the United Nations. It shows a photo of a man being tried in court and another image of what appears to be the same person.In reality, they show an Iranian protester who was executed in early January this year, weeks before Ranara's killing.
An image of South Korean First Lady Kim Keon-hee with her eyes closed has been shared hundreds of times in social media posts that falsely claim she fell asleep during a speech delivered by her husband in the United Arab Emirates. In fact, the image captured Kim blinking during President Yoon Suk-yeol's speech and video of the event does not show her sleeping.The tweet has since been shared more than 180 times.The photo appears to show Kim sitting in an audience with her eyes closed.Similar claims that Kim had fallen asleep during the speech were shared alongside the same screenshot on Twitter here, here and here.
With the arrival of Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo in the Saudi football league, multiple social media posts have claimed that pan-African Digital Satellite Television (DStv) has launched Channel 240 to broadcast the league's matches, But this is false. DStv’s owner Multichoice announced the creation of horse-racing Channel 240 on January 19, 2021 – long before Ronaldo joined the Al-Nassr football club.Ronaldo signed a two-year deal with the Riyadh-based football club Al-Nassr following the termination of his contract by “mutual consent” with Manchester United.
Multiple social media posts have claimed that Saudi football club Al-Nassr fired one of their players, Jaloliddin Masharipov of Uzbekistan for refusing to give his jersey number to the team’s latest recruit, Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo. However, this is false: Masharipov had switched to jersey number 77 prior to Ronaldo’s arrival. While the Uzbek player may leave the team, a club representative said this would be due to Saudi football league regulations limiting the number of foreign players, and nothing to do with Ronaldo’s jersey.
A video has been viewed more than a million times in social media posts falsely claiming it shows a man on a drone waving a flag with the Islamic proclamation of faith at the World Cup in Qatar in 2022. The video was in fact filmed in Saudi Arabia during the local King's Cup football tournament in May 2019.Qatar became the first Muslim nation to host the World Cup and welcomed hundreds of thousands of fans, taking advantage of the opportunity to change minds about Islam or even make conversions.Qatar became the first Muslim nation to host the World Cup and welcomed hundreds of thousands of fans, taking advantage of the opportunity to change minds about Islam or even make conversions.
A video has been viewed hundreds of times in social media posts that falsely claim Saudi Arabia has deployed fighter planes and troops to Indonesia to help the Southeast Asian country "invade Australia" due to the territorial conflict over Ashmore Reef. The false posts go on to claim that other Gulf countries are also sending fighter jets to Indonesia. In fact, the narrated text in the misleading video has been taken from a news article about Saudi sending fighters and troops to invade Yemen in 2015. As of December 17, 2022, there have been no official reports about Saudi Arabia deploying troops to Indonesia.The three-minute nine-second video was posted here on YouTube on December 7, 2022. It has been viewed more than 17,000 times.
A video is making the rounds online in Africa with a claim that it shows a brutal attack on a transgender  in Qatar But the claim is false:. The Muslim nation, which is hosting the 2022 World Cup tournament, has come under scrutiny for its strict laws against homosexuality.  the footage was filmed in Morocco on November 14, 2022, and shows a transgender woman being attacked in the city of Tangier. A clip posted with the tweet shows a person in a short dress and heels stumbling along a grass verge while trying to flee the blows and kicks coming from a group of men and children.
A video has been viewed thousands of times in Facebook posts that falsely claim it shows an American girl's reaction to the Islamic call to prayer, the Adhan, at a shopping mall in Qatar during the World Cup. The clip was in fact filmed in Dubai a decade before the tournament. The video, which has more than 5,800 views, shows a girl looking curiously around a shopping mall as the call to prayer rings out. The Qatar World Cup has prompted a flurry of misinformation with religious elements, including videos falsely shared as football fans converting to Islam, worshippers praying at a stadium and a match interrupted by the Islamic call to prayer at the tournament.
An old clip of football fans singing a pro-Palestinian song has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in posts that falsely claim it was filmed during the World Cup in Qatar. The clip circulated as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict made its presence felt at the first World Cup on Arab soil, but it was in fact filmed at a football match in Morocco in 2019.Host nation Qatar has no diplomatic relations with Israel and remains a supporter of the decades-long Palestinian cause for statehood.The same clip has also been viewed over 40,000 times alongside a similar claim on Twitter.
Facebook posts shared in multiple African countries fakely  says  that the Ghanaian national football team competing at the 2022 World Cup tournament in Qatar forgot their kit at home. This meant the Black Stars, as they are known, allegedly had nothing to wear for their first game on November 24, 2022. However, the Ghanaian Football Federation dismissed the claim, saying there were “no jersey issues”. The Black Stars were also seen wearing their official outfits in pictures taken by AFP at a training camp in Doha and during the team's opening match against Portugal.In Nigeria, a Facebook page operating under the name of award-winning sportscaster and media personality Clive Suger George also shared the same claim.
Facebook users in Bangladesh have repeatedly shared posts that falsely claim a Saudi Arabian football player died in hospital after a severe head injury sustained during a match against Argentina at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. While the player, Yasser Al-Shahrani, had to undergo surgery after the match, the operations were successful and he was discharged from hospital.The post circulated after Saudi Arabia stunned Lionel Messi's Argentina at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, beating the two-time champions 2-1 in one of the biggest upsets in the tournament's history.
A video has been falsely shared in multiple social media posts claiming it shows football fans who went to watch the World Cup in Qatar converting to Islam. The video has in fact circulated online since at least 2018, in posts that say it shows Filipino workers in Qatar's capital Doha converting to Islam.The one-minute, 45-second video was shared on Facebook here on November 27, 2022, where it has since been viewed more than 9,000 times.It shows a group of people gathered on a basketball court listening to a man wearing a white robe and then repeating the Arabic words of the Shahada, the Islamic declaration of faith. The group then repeats the profession of faith in Tagalog.
A photo of an official examining a can of beer disguised as a soft drink has been misleadingly shared in social media posts that claim it shows how football fans are sneaking beer into stadiums at the Qatar World Cup. The photo in fact shows a smuggling attempt detected by customs officers in Saudi Arabia in November 2015.The photo shows an official peeling a Pepsi label from a can of drink to reveal a label for Heineken beer underneath.The post was shared on November 21, as the World Cup kicked off in Qatar.FIFA said the decision was made after discussions with authorities in the host country, an Islamic state which severely restricts alcohol consumption.
Saudi Arabian football had plenty to celebrate after their team’s shock victory against Argentina in the first group game of the FIFA World Cup in Qatar. A Facebook post in Nigeria claimed to show a Saudi fan hugging and kissing a woman after the match on November 22, 2022 But the claim is misleading. the pictures are screengrabs from a video filmed in 2018 at the World Cup in Russia.The post, shared more than 200 times, includes two pictures of a man wearing Arabic attire hugging and then kissing a woman while he is holding a Saudi flag.The picture went viral on social media after it was published by a Twitter account called Troll Football following Argentina’s shock loss to Saudi Arabia on November 22, 2022. The account is known for promoting football-related memes and funny videos.
Facebook posts shared thousands of times in Africa claim that a Lufthansa plane carrying the German football team to Qatar for the 2022 World Cup tournament was banned from landing because of its “gay logo”. But the claim is false: the players flew to Oman on the so-called "Diversity" plane for a friendly match, before switching to a smaller aircraft without any branding to head to Qatar. AFP Fact Check also found that “Diversity” landed in Doha on at least three occasions in November 2022. It was shared by a Facebook page called “Inside Africa” with more than 300,000 followers.The page’s administrators are based in Kenya, South Africa and Egypt, according to Facebook’s transparency section.
Footage that predates the Qatar World Cup by more than four years has resurfaced online in posts that falsely claim it shows a "massive fire" at the tournament which kicked off on November 20. The clip, which has racked up thousands of views in false posts, actually shows football fans setting off fireworks at a match in Germany in May 2018, after Hamburg's historic relegation from the Bundesliga league.The video, which has more than 5,000 views, shows security personnel running towards a football pitch engulfed in thick smoke.The video was shared in similar Facebook posts in Bengali and English.
A video has been viewed more than one million times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows people praying in a stadium during the Qatar World Cup. In fact, the video has circulated online since 2019 and shows Muslims offering iftar prayers at an arena in Russia's Kazan city."#FIFAWorldCup2022 is a fantastic opportunity to showcase to world, importance of peace & compassion in #Islam. #Qatar is doing a great job, highlighting diversity & culture of Islamic states."The video, which shows a crowd performing Islamic prayers in a stadium, has been viewed more than 29,000 times.
A video has been viewed millions of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows a Koran recital at the opening ceremony of the Qatar World Cup at the Al Bayt Stadium. While other footage from the ceremony shows a World Cup ambassador genuinely recited a verse from the holy text at the ceremony, the posts share a clip from a different Qatari stadium inauguration in October 2021.The video shows a man leading a group of boys in a Koran recital and was shared here on Facebook on November 18.But while World Cup ambassador Ghanim Al Muftah genuinely uttered a verse from the Koran during the ceremony, the video circulating on social media was filmed in October 2021.
Photos of former Philippine vice president Leni Robredo with a man wearing an Arabic headdress have been shared hundreds of times in posts that falsely claim she wore inappropriate clothing during a trip to Saudi Arabia. In reality, the images show Robredo attending Saudi Arabia's National Day celebration in a hotel in the Philippine capital, Manila, in 2018. AFP has not found any evidence the former vice president traveled to Saudi Arabia during her term.One image shows Robredo walking alongside a man wearing an Arabic headdress in a room where Saudi flags are displayed. The other two are close-up photos of her green dress.
Several Facebook posts showing Russian TV presenter Elena Lenina have been shared alongside a false claim they show Ukrainian First Lady Olena Zelenska on vacation in Israel, as Russia's military continues to launch attacks on her country. The photo of Lenina was first leaked in 2016, and she posted an image of similar false posts on Instagram in October 2022 alongside a clarification.The author claimed the picture "was leaked to Russian reporters".A Twitter post with an identical image collage and claim has been retweeted more than 120 times and gained more than 320 likes.
Images that appear to show a flag made of human hair has been shared thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim it was made of the hair of Iranian women protesting the Islamic republic's ruling regime in September 2022. However, the claim is false. The images were stills of a video installation made by Belgian artist Edith Dekyndt in 2014 -- years before the protests in Iran. The artist previously said in an interview that her artwork was made on the French Caribbean island of Martinique to represent its colonial past.A picture of a flag made of black hair was shared here on Facebook on September 21, 2022.Its Hindi-language caption translates as: "World’s most powerful image comes from Iran, where local women protesters have chopped off their hair and hoisted it as a flag."
Following massive protests in Iran triggered by the death of 22-year-old Kurdish Iranian woman Mahsa Amini, a video was viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows Iranians celebrating the death of the country's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The posts circulated as Khamenei made his first public comments since Amini's death, in which he accused arch-foes the United States and Israel of fomenting a wave of nationwide unrest. But the video in fact shows a protest in Canada's Ontario province against the Iranian regime. As of October 11, there have been no official reports that Khamenei has died.
Video shows protesters torching statue of late Iranian cleric, not supreme leader.A video has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times on social media alongside a false  claim that shows Iranian protesters setting a statue of their country's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on fire. The post surfaced amid ongoing protests sparked by the death of Mahsa Amini in September 2022 when she was in police custody. The statue that was torched was in fact one of the late Iranian cleric and politician Morteza Motahhari in the northeastern city of Mashhad in September 2022. An expert on Iranian politics told AFP that there are no statues of Khamenei in Iran.
A misleading video of a man dancing alongside with a false  claim shows a father at the funeral of his daughter who was purportedly killed by Iranian morality police for not covering her hair. The clip circulated as Iranian authorities carried out a lethal crackdown on protests sparked by the death of a woman detained for allegedly breaching rules requiring women to wear the hijab and modest clothes. However, the footage was taken from an episode of an Azerbaijani television series from January 2018.
Two photos have been shared hundreds of times in multiple social media posts that falsely claim that shows pro-government rallies in Iran held to counter anti-hijab protests that have rocked the country since mid-September 2022. Although thousands did attend the pro-hijab rallies, both photos have been shared in a false context. One pictureshows a pro-government demonstration in Tehran in December 2017, while the other picture shows the funeral ceremony for Iran's top military commander Qasem Soleimani, who was killed in a US strike, in the country's capital in January 2020.
An image of a teenage boy has been shared thousands of times in social media posts that claim it shows the 14-year-old grandson of late Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, Mustafa Hussein, who "shot dead 14 US soldiers" during a gunfight that also killed his father and uncle However, this is false. American photographer Steve McCurry, who took the photo, says it shows an Afghan fighter. According to the US military commander in Iraq at the time, four US soldiers were wounded in the July 2003 raid, which killed Mustafa, his father and uncle.The photo of a teenager holding a rifle and a dog was posted on Facebook on September 2, 2022, where it has been shared more than 760 times.
Video shows Kuwait football celebration in 2020, not India cricket win in 2022.Social media  fale posts in India share footage that they claim shows a Dubai sheikh celebrating India's win against Pakistan in a match at the Asia Cup Twenty20 cricket tournament in August 2022. However, the video actually shows the president of a Kuwaiti football club cheering after his team triumphed in the Kuwait Emir Cup in September 2020.In the video, which has more than 435,000 views, a group of Arab men in a stadium leap from their seats and cheer, with one of them tearing off his keffiyeh in celebration.
Video shows interior of Sufi leader’s mausoleum, not inside the Kaaba. The Kaaba, a large black cubic structure located at the centre of Mecca’s Grand Mosque, is Islam’s holiest site; its doors are only opened for washing or for visiting Muslim VIPs. A Facebook post recently circulating in Nigeria claims to show the interior of the structure, with sparkling chandeliers. However, the claim is false: the video was filmed in Iraq and shows the inside of a Sufi scholar’s mausoleum. Genuine footage from inside the Kaaba shows that it looks very different. The video shows a man dressed in a white kaftan and cap opening the doors to a building. Inside, the walls are decorated with Arabic calligraphy while chandeliers hang from the ceiling. The video also shows two other doors that lead to inner rooms. 
Social media posts shared hundreds of times claim to show a photo of the funeral of some of the 81 people executed on a single day in Saudi Arabia on terrorism-related charges on March 12, 2022. In fact, the picture was taken at funeral processions for the victims of an attack by gunmen in Saudi Arabia in 2014.The tweet, shared more than 350 times, shows a photo of crowds gathered around rows of caskets. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said that among those beheaded, 41 belonged to the Shiite minority, and had taken part in anti-government protests in 2011-2012.The picture actually shows funeral processions for the victims of a gun attack in Saudi Arabia in 2014 instead of  people executed in Saudi Arabia in 2022.
Saudi Arabia did not 'ban cinemas in January 2022'.Facebook posts shared hundreds of times in January 2022 claimed Saudi Arabia had permanently banned cinemas from operating in the kingdom, reversing a 2017 decision to allow them to operate as these posts are false; as of February 16, 2022, Saudi Arabia's entertainment authority has not announced any ban on cinemas. Two cinema chains told AFP they continue to operate in the kingdom and were selling tickets for cinema showings as of February 16.It has been shared more than 400 times.
Several media outlets in Bangladesh misleadingly published reports that claim Saudi Arabia plans to remove an Islamic oath from the country's flag which is wrong. The claim is misleading; the reports from Bangladesh cited Saudi state media that only reported on a draft amendment approved in late January 2022 to regulate the use of the flag, not its contents. As of February 15, 2022, AFP found no official reports of the kingdom planning to change its flag design.The Kalima Tayyiba, an Arabic phrase that means "the blessed word", refers to the Islamic declaration of faith that translates to: "There is no god but Allah, and Mohammed is the messenger of Allah."
Facebook posts claim Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman cancelled a meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in during a visit to the Middle East in January 2022. The posts mock Moon and claim the prince ditched plans to see him but maintained a meeting with the Thai prime minister. The claim is false; news reports and photos show Moon met the prince in Riyadh on January 18, 2022.The post features screenshots of news reports on Bin Salman's meeting with Thailand's Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha.Similar claims were shared here on Facebook; and on the South Korean online forums Ilbe and Oeoeoe.Moon met Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in the Saudi capital Riyadh on January 18.
A misleading video showing thick smoke billowing from a building has been viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts and news reports about a deadly attack in Abu Dhabi falsely claimed by Yemen's Houthi rebels in January 2022. But the video has been shared in a false context; it has circulated since at least 2015 in reports about a fire that ripped through a supermarket warehouse in the United Arab Emirates capital.The 15-second video has been viewed more than 38,000 times.The video circulated with the false claim the same day Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for a drone and missile attack that struck an oil facility and the airport in Abu Dhabi, killing three people and wounding six. AFP reported on the attack here.
A graphic video that appears to show a man with smoke coming out of his face has circulated in social media posts alongside a claim the man was "burned inside out by 5G radiation and graphene in vaccines" however it is misleading it's tear gas . The posts further claim the incident was filmed in Israel which leads in Covid-19 vaccinations worldwide. These posts are false; the video has circulated in reports about protesters sprayed with tear gas in Iraq before the coronavirus pandemic; experts told AFP that claims linking Covid-19 vaccines to 5G or graphene are inaccurate. One comment to the post reads: "This terrible thing happened in Israel, the leading country in vaccination".
A video has been viewed and shared in false context hundreds of thousands of times in social media posts that misleadingly claim it shows a helicopter crash in India that killed India's defence chief General Bipin Rawat and twelve others on December 8, 2021. The video has been shared in a false context: it has circulated in reports since 2020 about Syrian rebels downing a government military chopper in eastern Idlib.The video was shared here on YouTube on December 8, 2021. It has been viewed more than 660,000 times.It shows a burning helicopter falling through the sky before it breaks up into pieces.
An image of a gigantic rock in a shipping container has been shared thousands of times in social media posts claiming that it was delivered to a port in Ivory Coast’s capital Abidjan instead of two vehicles that were ordered online from Dubai. The claim is false: the image shows the minister of mining in Malawi during the interception of a Chinese-bound shipment of quartz rock from the capital Lilongwe. The image, which shows an open container and three men in suits inspecting the cargo, appears in this Facebook post from Nigeria. It has been shared more than 400 times since publication on November 30, 2021.
A Facebook post shared hundreds of times purports to show the moment an Ethiopian military helicopter was shot down by Tigrayan rebels on November 11, 2021 but this is false.  the first three photos of the hit chopper were taken in Syria, while the final image of a rocket has been on the internet since at least September 15, 2021.The post, published on November 11, 2021, includes three grainy photographs of a burning helicopter as it falls out of the sky and a fourth picture showing a rocket on the back of an open truck.
A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts that claim it shows the gambling of a casino in Saudi Arabia as the claim is false. The video shows a card game tournament in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, which awarded a cash prize to its winners. Gambling is prohibited in Saudi Arabia and in Islam.A reverse image search followed by a keyword search on Google found the video uploaded here on Facebook on April 7, 2018, by channel Life in Saudi Arabia.
A false and misleading video has been viewed over a million times on multiple platforms alongside a claim that it shows Prophet Mohammed’s shrine . The claim is false: the video actually shows the shrine of Sufi master Abdul Qadir Al-Jilani in Iraq.The three-minute video, which shows several men praying in front of a tomb, was posted here on TikTok on October 21, 2021.A combined Google reverse image and keyword search found a longer video was posted here on YouTube on August 22, 2021. At the 43-second mark in both clips, a blue cloth with Arabic text can be seen covering the tomb.
A video of a gathering storm looming over a coastal city is being shared on social media with a claim that it shows Hurricane Shaheen, a deadly cyclone that recently caused widespread damage . This video is a digital animation and does not show a deadly storm in Oman. A Facebook post with more than 1,600 shares includes a video of what looks like a dramatic storm bearing down on a coastal city.AFP Fact Check recognised the video from previous debunks as the work of digital artist Brent Shavnore, who is also credited in the post’s comments section.The clip was first debunked in 2019 following claims that it showed Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas.
A photo has been shared hundreds of times in Facebook and Twitter posts purporting to show an explosion at a mosque in Pakistan at the hands of the Taliban , However, the claim is false. The post circulated online after the group seized power of Afghanistan in August.  The photo has circulated since at least 2014 in news articles about the Islamic State group blowing up a mosque in Mosul, Iraq.The tweet shows a photo of smoke billowing from a tall building.A reverse image search on Google found the same photo in news reports about a mosque explosion in Mosul, northern Iraq in 2014.IraqiNews featured the photo in a report on July 6, 2014 about militants from the Islamic State group targeting mosques in Mosul.
Five photos have been shared thousands of times in Facebook  posts alongside with misleading claim that they were taken during the hottest day in Kuwait in July 2021.  However, the claims are false: all the photos have circulated years before Kuwait's extremely hot summer of 2021. According to the Kuwaiti Meteorological Department, the highest temperature recorded in the country so far in 2021 is 53.5 degrees Celsius, not 73 degrees Celsius. Five photographs were uploaded on July 10, 2021, in this Facebook post, which has been shared more than 2,000 times.
A video has been viewed thousands of times in multiple Facebook posts that claim it shows Israeli forces bombing a Palestinian mosque in May 2021 which claim is false. the footage actually shows a shrine bombed by the Islamic State group in Syria in 2014. The video was shared on Facebook here on May 13, 2021, where it has been viewed more than 1,500 times.Adhan is an Islamic call to prayer from a mosque, while Eid is an Islamic festival that marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan.Raqqa is a city in Syria, which became the capital of the Islamic State’s self-proclaimed caliphate.
A photo of a dead bird lying near its nest has been shared in multiple Facebook and Twitter posts that it was taken in May 2021 after fires in Islamabad’s Margalla Hills is false.  the photo has circulated in reports since 2020 about forest fires in neighbouring Iran. The photo was published in this Facebook post on May 28, 2021.Famous Pakistani fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar also tweeted the photo along with the same caption as the misleading Facebook post.
Misleading Posts shared thousands of times on Facebook show an image of the Cairo Tower lit up with the colours of the Palestinian flag alongside a false claim that the display is a show of solidarity following the recent Israeli-Palestinian fighting.  the image has been online since 2010, 11 years before the latest surge in violence in the conflict. Furthermore, the image has been doctored to add the colours of the Palestinian flag.On May 19, this Facebook post was shared with an image of the Cairo Tower glowing with what appears to be the flag of the Palestinian territories at dusk.
Old videos of Turkish army convoys were filmed in Syria and Russia, not in Palestinian territories. This misleading Facebook post  shared out  of context featuring footage of military convoys claims the video shows Turkish soldiers arriving in the Palestinian territories where fresh violence erupted between Israel and Hamas militants in May 2021. However, the claim is false: the footage comprises two old clips filmed at unrelated events in Syria and Russia.The footage has been viewed more than 20,000 times since it was published by a Facebook page called “Palestine-Esrael Update” on May 22, 2021. The account, with more than 56,000 followers, was created on May 14, 2021.
Two images have been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook alongside a claim they show Myanmar army tanks that were destroyed by the anti-coup rebels,The claim is false. the photos in fact show two different Iraqi military incidents in 1991 and 2013.These images of military tanks were taken in Iraq, not Myanmar. The photos were published here on Facebook on May 25, 2021. The post has been shared more than 760 times.
This image has been edited and altered to combine a photo of Turkish troops in Syria and a photo from Al-Aqsa Mosque complex.An image has been shared more than a thousand times on Facebook alongside a claim that it shows Turkish troops arriving at Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem as the claim is false: the image has been edited, combining two different photos: a photo of the Dome of the Rock at the Al-Aqsa Mosque complex in Jerusalem and a picture of Turkish troops in the Syrian city of Afrin in 2018.
A misleading video has been shared out of context  that claims and shows clashes between the Israeli army and Palestinian militants at the Al-Aqsa mosque in east Jerusalem in May 2021. The claim is false: the footage shows US and Iraqi troops recapturing a holy shrine in Iraq in 2004. The video was shared on Facebook here on May 17, 2021. It has been viewed more than 800,000 times.The clip circulating in misleading social media posts begins at the 06:19 mark. 
The BBC has made no such move  and did not remove the United Kingdom’s national broadcaster, bowed to pressure from Israel and removed its Middle East correspondent Jeremy Bowen from Gaza. According to the post, the veteran journalist was pulled out for reporting that he had not seen any evidence of Hamas using Palestinians as human shields. However, ; the screenshot is fabricated and has circulated online since 2014.Bowen continues to report for the BBC from Gaza. Bowen, who is BBC’s Middle East Editor, wrote an article in the New Statesman in 2014 saying that he had seen “no evidence” of Hamas using human shields in Gaza.
These photos show a photographer crying after Iraq lost a football match in 2019 not for  israel-palestine conflict .As a fresh wave of conflict erupted between Israel and Palestinian militants, photos emerged in multiple Facebook posts which purport to show a man crying as he captured the violence on camera. The claim is false; the images show photographer Mohammed Al-Azzawi shedding tears after Iraq lost to Qatar at the 2019 Asian Cup. The photos were published on May 11, 2021 on this Facebook page which has more than 78,000 followers.
A photo of Argentinian football player Lionel Messi is being shared online alongside a claim that the striker is boycotting a match against Israel because he refuses to play “against people who kill innocent Palestinian children” jowever this claim is false; the quote is fabricated, . The versions have been circulating online since 2018. AFP Fact Check had already debunked the claim at the time. The Facebook post, which includes an image of Messi and the Palestinian flag, has been shared nearly 250 times in Nigeria since it was published on May 20, 2021. The caption further implies that Messi’s purported advocacy is related to the recent fighting between Israel and armed groups in Gaza.
A clip has been viewed millions of times on social media platforms alongside with a false claim that shows Indonesian troops “departing for Palestine” in 2021. The claim is false: the video actually shows Indonesian troops arriving at an airport in Jakarta, after completing a peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. The Indonesian-language text superimposed on the clip reads: “Best of luck in your fight the nation’s heroes, may the Almighty God protect you. A reverse image on Yandex, followed by keyword searches on Google, found this photo, posted on the official Instagram account of the Indonesian military’s information center on January 20, 2021.
A photo of a girl wearing a green and white outfit has been shared thousands of times on Facebook. This is an old photo of a child who lives in Russia, not a toddler killed in Gaza.  the picture was taken in 2018, and the child is alive, living in Moscow, Russia. She was at the Moscow Zoo on the day the Facebook posts claimed she was killed.The child’s photo was also used in this tweet with more than 1,200 likes and at least 600 retweets. A reverse image search traced the picture to Russian debunks here and here, dispelling claims about the child's identity.But a more recent Instagram post on May 15, 2021, shows the child, now a few years older, with her mother during a day out at the Moscow Zoo.
An image of several warships accompanied by helicopters has been shared with false claims news purporting to show Turkish soldiers arriving in the Palestinian territories as tensions between Israel and Islamist group Hamas escalated into deadly violence. The claim is false; the photo has been circulating online since at least 2008.The image features six helicopters and seven warships at sea, bearing Turkish flags.The post was shared during the recent escalation of violence between the state of Israel and Hamas, the Islamic military group that controls the Gaza Strip. However, the photo predates the 2021 Israeli-Palestinian crisis and does not show the Turkish military arriving in the region. 
Multiple Facebook posts have shared out of context video that misleadingly claim  an Israeli aircraft downed by Islamic fighters during deadly clashes between Israel and Hamas in May 2021. The claim is false: the video has circulated online since 2020 in unrelated reports about a Syrian military helicopter shot down by rebels in the city of Idlib.A mujahid in its broadest sense refers to Muslims who fight on behalf of the faith.Hundreds of Palestinians were killed during the 11-day conflict until a ceasefire was agreed on May 21.For example, this article by Haaretz, which contains the same video, says the footage shows Turkey-backed rebels in Idlib shooting down a Syrian army Mi-17 helicopter.
As Israel-Palestinian tensions escalated into deadly violence, a photo surfaced in Facebook, Twitter and Instagram posts that claimed it showed an Israeli soldier kneeling on a Palestinian child’s neck however the claim is false. the photo shows a police officer in Valparaíso, Chile in 2016. AFP has previously fact checked the same picture, which circulated during protests following the death of George Floyd.The image was posted here on May 15, 2021 by Rana Mashood Ahmad Khan, a member of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) political party and the Punjab provincial assembly.
The Clip which went viral online shows Turkish soldiers en route to Syria in 2018, not in Jerusalem in 2021.while the clip is of Turkish soldiers, it was taken in 2018 when the country sent troops to Syria to fight Kurdish forces.In the recording, an army vehicle cruises past a cheering crowd while waving a Turkish flag. A soldier with glasses and a blue beret is seen shaking hands with people in the crowd.A different version of the video in Bosnian, taken from the same parade, also appeared here on Facebook with the same false claim.The bloody conflict escalated after Hamas, the Islamic group that controls Gaza, had launched rockets at Israel, which responded with a deadly bombing campaign.
An image of a boy in a green sweater cleaning a bloody floor has been shared multiples times  falsely claiming that it shows a Palestinian child mopping up the blood of his family members who were killed in Gaza which is not true. The photo has been online since 2012 and is unrelated to the latest Israeli-Palestinian conflict.A reverse image search located the picture on the 500px website, an online photo-sharing platform, based in Canada, where the image was posted nine years ago.The copyright description on the website credits the picture to a photographer in Jerusalem identified as Rj Stitt. The caption reads: “Palestinian Kid cleaning up after the slaughter of a cow in his parents slaughterhouse, Nr Ramallah, Palestine”.
Doctored photo falsely claims Israel named a fighter jet after Indian woman killed in airstrike.Multiple Facebook and Twitter posts have shared a photo which they claim shows an Israeli tribute to an Indian woman killed in a Hamas rocket strike in May 2021, with her name painted on a fighter jet. The claim is false: the photo was doctored; the woman’s name was digitally inserted onto an image that has circulated online in reports since April 2020 about a Chinese fighter jet.The claim was published here on Facebook on May 17, 2021.The photo circulated amid deadly fighting between Israel and Hamas, the Islamist movement which controls the Gaza Strip. A ceasefire came into force on May 21, 2021, AFP reported.
Facebook posts circulating in various languages purport to show a photo of Pope Francis kissing the hands of American banker David Rockefeller and a member of the wealthy Rothschild family however the claim is false. the photograph shows the pontiff meeting Holocaust survivors in Israel in 2014.The photo was shared in a Facebook post published here on April 18, 2021.A similar claim appeared on Facebook in Spanish and French, purporting to show former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger alongside the pope, with Rothschild and Rockefeller.
The claim is false: the video in fact shows Netanyahu discussing the syringe used when he was  vaccinated against Covid-19; and nowhere in the video does he mention “killing Muslims”.Israeli PM Netanyahu talking about his Covid-19 vaccination not about killing muslims. The video was shared online amid escalating violence between Israel and Hamas, which began on May 10, 2021. More than 200 people have died, the large majority Palestinians killed by Israeli rockets, AFP reported here. A reverse image search on Yandex, followed by Google keyword searches, found a longer video was posted on Netanyahu’s official Instagram account here on January 18, 2021. The 44-second clip is captioned: “Listen to a story.”
As deadly violence escalated between Israel and Palestinian militants shared a docotored photo with flase claim shows Hollywood actress Kristen Stewart wearing a scarf she  received from a Palestinian fan. The claim is false: the image has been altered to add the scarf.The posts circulated as tensions escalated between Israel and Palestinian militants. More than 200 Palestinians, including 61 children, have been killed since hostilities flared between the Jewish state and armed Palestinian groups in the Gaza Strip, according to local authorities.The claim, however, is false: the image has been altered to add the scarf.
This image of the Giza Pyramids lit with the Palestinian flag is doctored.The photos appeared as fresh violence erupted between Israeli forces and Hamas militants in the Gaza strip. But the claim is false: the picture is old and has been edited. Egyptian authorities also denied there was such a display of support on the pyramids.The posts feature a nighttime image of the Pyramids of Giza, with the colours of the Palestinian flag projected onto them. The photo has also been posted on Facebook, including this post shared nearly 350 times in South Africa since it was published on May 15, 2021. 
Multiple posts on Facebook claim Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a recent doctotred and  purported  speech that his country owed Islamist movement Hamas a huge debt of gratitude for uniting the Jews. He also allegedly vowed to stop firing at the Gaza strip “forever” if Hamas ceased its rocket attacks. The claims surfaced as the region is rocked by fresh violence. But in reality, the speech is a reproduction of a purported blog post written in 2014 as the “musings” of an Israeli blogger who wanted to create a “viral hoax”.Netanyahu purportedly gave Hamas a 24-hour ultimatum to stop launching missiles in exchange for a cessation of Israeli military action. 
As violence escalated in Gaza in May 2021, multiple online posts shared a video that they claimed shows Palestinians staging a fake funeral in Gaza in a bid to gain world sympathy however the claim is false. the video has circulated online since March 2020 in unrelated posts about a Covid-19 lockdown stunt in Jordan.The video was shared here on Twitter on May 12, 2021. It has been viewed more than 140,000 times.It shows a group of people carrying what appears to be a shrouded body on a stretcher along a street.The group drops the stretcher and disperses suddenly as they hear sirens approaching. The person who had been lying on the stretcher then gets up and walks away.
This photo shows a UAE minister attending the opening ceremony of a church in Abu Dhabi not a saudi king inauguration ceremony of church. The picture was posted on Facebook on May 4, 2021. A reverse image search on Yandex found this photo, taken by AFP on June 11, 2015. The picture’s caption reads: “(From L-R) Vatican Secretary of State, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, UAE minister for youth, culture and community development Sheikh Nahayan bin Mubarak Al-Nahayan and Papal Nuncio and delegate to the Arabian Peninsula Archbishop Petar Rajic take part in the opening ceremony of the second Catholic Church dedicated to St Paul in Abu Dhabi’s industrial district of Musaffah on June 11, 2015.”St. Paul Church is located in Musaffah in the UAE’s capital, Abu Dhabi. 
A picture has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook and Twitter alongside with a false claims that it shows an eagle catching an Israeli surveillance drone flying over Gaza.  The picture has circulated online in reports about an eagle catching a drone during a police exercise in the Netherlands in March 2016. The same picture was also shared with a claim in Arabic back in November 2019. The picture was distributed by AFP on the same date, with a caption: “An eagle of the Guard from Above company, grasps a drone during a police exercise in Katwijk, on March 7, 2016. The bird of prey can get drones from the air by catching them with his legs.”Katwijk is a town in the province of southern Netherlands. 
Three photos have been shared hundreds of times on Facebook alongside a false claim that show a Myanmar military helicopter was shot down in March 2021 by the Karen National Union and the Kachin Independence Army. two armed ethic groups in Myanmar. However, the claim is false; the photos in fact show a Syrian military helicopter that was shot down in northern Syria in February 2020. The photos were published on Facebook here on March 13, 2021. The post has since been shared over 1,800 times.The post’s Burmese-language caption translates in English as: “KIA and KNU have done what they said. Are you happy, guys!! Two dragonflies (helicopters) are down.”
A video has been viewed millions of times in multiple posts on TikTok, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube alongside with a misleading claim it shows Israeli soldiers shooting a minaret of a Palestinian mosque while an Islamic call to prayer is being broadcast. The claim is false. The audio of the video has been edited: in the original video, no call of prayer is heard. The video actually shows a minaret of a mosque in Iraq being shot by American troops. The video, which shows a minaret being shot at repeatedly while a call to prayer is heard in the background, was published on March 3, 2021, here on TikTok. It has been viewed more than 9 million times. “Adhan” refers to the Islamic call to prayer. 
Photos of a boy covered in bruises have been shared thousands of times on Facebookalongside with a false claim that the is the Muslim boy who was beaten for allegedly drinking tap water inside a Hindu temple in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh in March 2021. The claim is false; one of the photos has circulated since October 2020 in reports about a boy who was brutally assaulted by his father in Al-Mahwit, Yemen.The post’s Hindi caption translates to English as: “Is the Hindutva in India going to be like this? Asif, please go to a Gurdwara [Sikh shrine], a church or a hotel if you are thirsty next time, but do not go to temple, my brother. I neither want a temple where there is such brutality nor a Hindutva like this.”
A video claims that it was taken during an air show in Sri Lanka to celebrate the 70th anniversary but it's  not true as in real it shows an aviation photographer documenting a 2020 air show in Saudi Arabia . The claim, however, is false; the footage in fact shows an air show in Saudi Arabia that was held in 2020 to celebrate the Kingdom’s 90th national day.A reverse Google image search with video keyframes found that the video in fact shows an air show in Saudi Arabia in 2020. 
This video shows soldiers performing a stunt at a 2016 military parade in Iran. A video has been shared hundreds of thousands of times in multiple Facebook posts that misleadingly claim it shows Afghan soldiers failing to demonstrate martial art skills at a military ceremony as the claim is false. the video in fact shows Iranian soldiers performing a stunt at a military parade in 2016. A reverse image search on Google using keyframes from the video found that it in fact shows soldiers in Iran, not Afghanistan. 
A video has been viewed thousands of times after an Indian politician posted it on Facebook claiming it shows a crowd singing after the Indian national cricket team's historic test match win against Australia on January 19, 2021. The claim is false; the footage actually shows an India-Pakistan game at the Dubai International Stadium in September 2018.The short clip was posted to Facebook here on January 19, 2021 by Sushil Singh, a politician from India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. It has been viewed more than 150,000 times.
Two photos show a doctor in Yemen offering free services from his car during the pandemic not a pakistani doctor who is offering free consultations. The photos appear to show a message in Urdu advertising the free services on the back of his car. The images, however, have been altered; the photos in fact show a doctor in Yemen and the original message on the car is in Arabic. The images were published on January 19, 2021 on a Facebook page called Medical Student Diaries, which has more than 500,000 followers.A reverse image search on Google found that the two pictures in fact show a doctor in Yemen and that the original message on the car was in Arabic, not Urdu. 
This image of the Burj Khalifa has been doctored the original does not show a projection of Indian cricketer Rohit Sharma. The image, however, has been digitally manipulated; the original photo does not show Sharma being projected onto the building.It also shows the logo of Sharma’s team, the Mumbai Indians, being displayed over a blue background on the Burj Khalifa, which is the world’s tallest building.The post circulated the same day that the Mumbai Indians won the Indian Premier League title for the fifth time, as AFP reported.The image, however, has been doctored.Another photo of the building lit up in blue for World Autism Awareness Day was also published on the Burj Khalifa’s official Twitter account here April 3, 2016.
A video has been viewed and shared tens of thousands of times on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube alongside a claim that it shows Kuwaitis throwing away French products after riots however The claim is false. the video has circulated in reports about a Saudi supermarket disposing dairy products in May 2020 – months before the calls to boycott French products. The video was published on Facebook here on November 3, 2020. It has been shared more than 25,000 times. The 29-second video shows men throwing products from supermarket trolley carts into a garbage truck. A reverse image search using keyframes extracted with digital verification tool InVID-WeVerify, followed by a keyword search, found the video was tweeted by UAE-based TV channel, Al-Arabiya on May 14, 2020.
Th clip went viral online claiming about discarding of votes is not related to the 2020 US election  ,it shows spoiled chicken being dumped in Saudi Arabia.A video has been viewed tens of thousand of times on social media alongside a claim in several languages that it shows large numbers of votes for incumbent US President Donald Trump being thrown away from trucks. The claim is false; the video has circulated since 2016 in reports about spoiled chicken being discarded in Saudi Arabia.The video was published on Twitter on November 4, 2020.The allegation comes after a series of calls by US incumbent Donald Trump to stop counting votes and still unproven allegations of election fraud. In the past, Trump has repeatedly doubted the legitimacy of postal votes. Former vice president and Democratic challenger Joe Biden won the election on November 7.
The photos which went  actually show a scene from a Syrian television drama series falsely claiming that  it shows  shows publuc execution in pakistan. The photos were published in this Facebook post on October 16, 2020. A reverse image search on Google and subsequent keyword search found all six photos match frames in this YouTube video, published on June 15, 2017. Khatoon is a television drama series that aired in Syria in 2017, starring Moatasem Alnahar, Caresse Bashar and Salloum Haddad. According to online movie database IMDb, it tells “a love epic story that took place during the French occupation of Damascus”.
Footage of a large crowd has been viewed hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook alongside a claim it shows people queuing for the opening of a movie theatre in Saudi Arabia but the claim, however, it is false. the footage actually shows a crowd jostling at a store opening in Saudi Arabia in 2019.The one-minute 37-second video was published on Facebook on September 21, 2020.The Arabic text superimposed on the video translates to English as: “Of all over the world, opening of cinemas in Saudi Arabia took place late.”A keyword search in Arabic also found a local news report published on Twitter here on April 19, 2019, which details the store’s location. It promotes its prices in riyals, the official currency of the Saudi kingdom.
A video has been viewed thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook alongside with a false  claim it shows Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrating his birthday with top industrialists as the country faces an agricultural crisis during the novel coronavirus pandemic. The claim, however, is false; the video actually shows Modi at a beach with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a visit to Israel in 2017. The post’s Hindi-language caption translates to English as: “Mr Modi is celebrating his birthday with top industrialists while farmers in our country are committing suicide, soldiers at borders are dying for no reason, COVID-19 pandemic is at its peak in the country, youths have become unemployed, half of the country has been sold.”Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was born on September 17, 1950.
A video has been viewed thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook and YouTube alongside a claim it shows Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani, a top Shiite leader in Iraq however the claim, however, is false.  the footage actually shows Grand Ayatollah Sayid Sadiq Shirazi, a Shiite leader in Iran, observing the Islamic holiday of Ashura in August 2020. The nine-minute video was published on Facebook on September 1, 2020. Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani is a major Shiite leader in Iraq and one of the most influential figures for Shiite Muslims across the region. The two-hour video was posted on the network's Facebook page on August 30, 2020. It features a Farsi caption that translates to English as: “Walk of Supreme authority grand Ayatollah Sayid Sadiq Husseini al-Shirazi.”
This man was executed for murdering a judge in Iran, not for preaching the gospel in Syria. An image has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook purporting to show a man who was sentenced to death in Syria for preaching the gospel. The claims are false; the picture is of Majid Kavousifar, an Iranian man who was convicted of assassinating a judge in Iran. It shows a man smiling and waving, with a blue noose attached to a crane and draped around his neck. A reverse image search of the picture leads to articles about two Iranian men being hanged for murder.The execution took place on the spot where the judge was murdered in August 2005, in the middle of a busy business district.AFP Fact Check has previously debunked claims that other photographs of this execution showed an Algerian hacker who was executed for stealing money from Israeli banks.
A photo has been shared hundreds of times in multiple Facebook posts alongside a false claim that it shows a young orphan girl who has lost her mother in a war however the claim is false. the Iranian artist who took the photo in 2012 says the girl is her cousin and there is no tragic story behind it.  The photo has been shared more than 800 times since posted on Facebook on October 23, 2015.It shows a young girl who was sleeping on the ground surrounded by a chalk drawing. The claim is false; the photo does not show an orphan who has lost her mother.The photo has been shared more than 800 times since posted on Facebook on October 23, 2015.It shows a young girl who was sleeping on the ground surrounded by a chalk drawing. 
An image has been shared hundreds of thousands of times on Facebook and Twitter alongside with a false claim that shows the tomb of Prophet Adam. The claim is false; the photo has circulated online in reports about the tomb of Prophet Imran in Oman. A reverse image search followed by keyword searches on Google found that the same image was uploaded on Twitter here on June 22, 2016.The picture in the misleading post also matches with this Google photo captured in February 2016. 
An image that appears to show several buildings carved into a mountain shared with a message asking who built the structure, which the author claims can be found in Africa,  However, the monument isn’t real.  it is a model of what King Herod’s palace could have looked like in biblical times, while the picture itself is a composite. The ruins on which the model is based are found in the Masada National Park in southern Israel and not in Africa.A Facebook post, archived here and published on July 22, 2020, includes an image of what looks like a monument perched on the side of a mountain surrounded by arid land. The biblical references are not far off but reverse image searches show that the picture is only a composite and the impressive-looking structure is an imaginary depiction of an ancient site in Israel, not in Ethiopia or anywhere else in Africa.
A video has been viewed thousands of times alongside with a false claim it shows the King of Bahrain arriving in Dubai escorted by a robot bodyguard. the footage has circulated online in reports about a robot called Titan who greeted visitors at a defence show in Abu Dhabi in 2019. The 30-second video was posted on Facebook on August 16, 2020. It has been viewed more than 3,200 times.A Google reverse image followed by subsequent keyword searches found this video uploaded on YouTube on February 24, 2020. It shows the same scene as the footage in the misleading post.The three-minute 28-second video is titled: “8-ft Titan robot greets visitors at UAE defence show Idex in Abu Dhabi”. 
Photos of the Burj Khalifa have been doctored to include the Israeli flag for celeberating peace agreement. Two photos have been shared repeatedly in multiple posts on Facebook which purport to show Dubai’s Burj Khalifa, the tallest tower in the world, illuminated with the Israeli flag to celebrate a new peace treaty between Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The claim is false; the photos have been doctored to include an image of the Israeli flag.The post’s Indonesian-language caption translates to English as: “The flag of Israel on Burj Khalifa in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), New Era in the Peaceful History in the Middle East has begun.”The claim and videos were shared via Line messenger on August 16, 2020.A reverse image search on Google using keyframes extracted with InVID-WeVerify, a digital verification tool, found the same video published here on the website of a UAE-based newspaper, The National, dated March 1, 2019.
Four videos have been shared multiple times on Facebook and Line Messenger alongside a claim that they show a fire caused by an oil pipeline explosion in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) city of Dubai on August 16, 2020. The claim is false; the videos have all separately circulated online before mid-August, in reports about earlier fires in Egypt and the UAE.The claim is false; the videos have circulated online before August 16, 2020. The article tells the story of a cafeteria worker who risked his life to save victims injured in a runaway train crash at Cairo’s Ramses rail station.A reverse image search of a screenshot from the second video found an identical clip published here on the Facebook page of Mexican news website SéUnoNoticias on August 6, 2020.
A picture of coffins wrapped in Lebanese flags is being shared in Facebook posts claiming to show the funeral of victims from the recent explosion in Beirut, Lebanon however The claim is false.  the image was taken by AFP in 2006 during the funeral procession of civilians who were killed in Israeli airstrikes on the Lebanese village of Qana.The claim was posted on Facebook two days after a deadly explosion destroyed parts of Lebanon’s capital on August 4, 2020, leaving at least 171 people dead and injuring thousands. Included in the post was an image of coffins draped in Lebanese flags, purporting to be a funeral procession for those who died in the catastrophic blast.However, a reverse image search on TinEye reveals that the image was actually captured by AFP in 2006 during the funeral procession of civilians killed in Israeli airstrikes targeting the southern Lebanese village of Qana on July 30, 2006.
A photo of a massive crater has been shared thousands of times in multiple Facebook posts that falsely claim it was taken at the site of an explosion in the Lebanese capital of Beirut in August 2020. The claim is false; the photo shows the aftermath of an explosion in the Chinese city of Tianjin in August 2015. The post was published one day after a massive chemical explosion at the port of Beirut on August 4. The blast killed at least 171 people and injured 6,500 others, AFP reported here on August 13.Keyword and reverse image searches on Google found the photo was in fact taken by a European Pressphoto Agency (EPA) photographer in the aftermath of an explosion in the Chinese city of Tianjin in August 2015.
An image has been shared in multiple posts on Malaysia alongside with a false  claim that people in Saudi Arabia are aiming infrared thermometers at people’s hands rather than their foreheads because “laser light” can damage the brain. The claim circulated as governments around the world recommended temperature checks as part of efforts to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus. The claim is false; health authorities have said infrared thermometers can safely be pointed at a person's head; the image in the misleading posts has been taken from a photo gallery which also shows officials in Saudi Arabia pointing infrared thermometers at people's heads.The Malaysian Ministry of Health (KKM) retweeted a thread by a local doctor, Muhamad Shazwan Sazali, commenting on a viral video advocating a similar misleading claim.
A video has been viewed more than one million times in multiple posts on Facebook alongside a claim it shows a Sindhi-speaking “beggar” who illegally boarded a Bangkok-bound plane in the Pakistani city of Karachi. The claim is false; the video shows a Farsi-speaking man on an Iran-bound plane in the Qatari capital of Doha. The one-minute and eight-second video was published on Facebook here on June 19, 2018. It has been viewed more than one million times and shared more than 29,000 times. A Google reverse image search found the footage was featured in multiple reports in June 2018. They state the incident occurred on a Qatar Airways flight from Qatar to Iran.
A misleading image shared out of context image has been shared hundreds of times in multiple posts on Facebook and Twitter alongside with a false claim it shows the Lebanese capital of Beirut following a massive explosion at a warehouse in August 2020.  the photo shows cars damaged by an explosion in China’s northern city of Tianjin in August 2015. A huge explosion in the Lebanese capital of Beirut on August 4, 2020 – which officials said originated from a depot storing ammonium nitrate at the city’s port – killed more than 110 people and injured more than 4,000 others,A reverse image search on Google followed by a keyword search found this Associated Press photo dated August 13, 2015. 
This video shows Saudi military parade to ensure the safety of the hajj pilgrimage in 2017 not security preparation ahead of hajj in 2020. it has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook alongside a claim it shows the preparation ahead of the hajj in 2020w which is false; the video actually shows a military parade held in Mecca ahead of the annual hajj pilgrimage in 2017.The nine-minute seven-second footage appeared in this post on Facebook on July 19, 2020. It has been viewed more than 87,000 times and shared more than 1,100 times. A reverse image search on Google, followed by a keyword search, found the same video was published on YouTube here on September 10, 2017. 
A photo of a young woman staring down a riot police officer shared with a misleading context  that  it shows a Palestinian girl protesting against Israel’s occupation of the Al-Aqsa mosque, an Islamic holy site in Jerusalem. The claim is false; the photo in fact shows a political demonstration in Chile in 2016.A reverse image search on Yandex found that the photo was actually taken by Reuters news agency during a political protest in Chile in September 2016.
An altered and doctored image of a person sitting near Islam's holiest shrine, the Kaaba in Saudi Arabia, has been shared  alongside with a false claim . it shows a lone cleaner who was the only person permitted to sit around the Kaaba during the coronavirus lockdown. The claim is false; the photo has been doctored to remove two people standing near the Kaaba; the original image has circulated in media reports about a Saudi policeman praying at the Islamic shrine.The Kaaba, a cube-shaped shrine covered with a black cloth, is located near the centre of the Great Mosque in Mecca and is considered Islam’s holiest site. 
A photo of dozens of men praying on neighbouring rooftops has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook and Twitter alongside a claim it shows Muslim worshippers in India praying together in defiance of the country’s COVID-19 lockdown. The claim is false; the photo in fact shows people praying in Dubai.The post’s Hindi caption translates to English as: “This act of praying might be loyalty to their religion but this is mutiny against India #coronavirus, #covid19 #stayathome.”A combination of reverse image and keyword searches based on identified landmarks in the photo found that it was in fact taken in Dubai, the largest city in the United Arab Emirates.
This video does not show Saddam Hussein making a reference to COVID-19.A video of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein has been shared repeatedly on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram alongside a claim it shows him stating the US threatened to spread the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, in Iraq during a meeting in the 1990s. The claim is false; the video's audio has been doctored to include a reference to COVID-19; the original Associated Press archive footage does not include any reference to COVID-19.Hussein was president of Iraq from 1979 until 2003. He was executed in December 2006 after being convicted of crimes against humanity. COVID-19 was first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. It has since killed more than 30,105 people and infected 638,146 others worldwide, according to data from the World Health Organization on March 30, 2020.
The Video clips do not show astronaut Buzz Aldrin saying Moon landing was 'fake'. A video of Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin has racked up millions of views after it was shared with a false claim it shows him repeatedly saying the 1969 Moon landing was a hoax. The video comprises three different clips that have been taken out of context. One clip shows Aldrin taking part in a comedy sketch while the other two show him speaking about his legendary achievement.Meanwhile, sticker text that appears in the beginning of the video reads: "Buzz Aldrin Admits Not Going To The Moon."The two-minute, 43-second video, which shows Aldrin in three different occasions, has been viewed more than 12,000 times.It also circulated in similar posts on X, formerly known as Twitter, here and on TikTok here and here, racking up more than 5.8 million views.
The viral Clip shows video game footage, not how India moved space rocket prior to launch. As India's space programme prepared to land a spacecraft near the Moon's little-explored south pole in August 2023, a video was shared in social media posts that falsely claimed it showed how the lunar rocket was transported across a makeshift bridge to its launch site. But the video in fact shows footage captured from the video game MudRunner and circulated months before the launch of India's Chandrayaan-3 mission.As India's space programme prepared to land a spacecraft near the Moon's little-explored south pole in August 2023, a video was shared in social media posts that falsely claimed it showed how the lunar rocket was transported across a makeshift bridge to its launch site. But the video in fact shows footage captured from the video game MudRunner and circulated months before the launch of India's Chandrayaan-3 mission.The unmanned Chandrayaan-3 spacecraft, which means "Mooncraft" in Sanskrit, was launched into orbit on July 14 and touched down near the Moon's south pole shortly after 6:04 pm India time (1234 GMT) on August 23.
Experts say no device can power a light bulb without a power source, contrary to a claim shared in videos with millions of views across social media platforms in Indonesia. An engineer told AFP the device shown in the videos likely has a light bulb powered by an internal battery. so False posts touting electricity generators without power source spread in Indonesia. One video has been viewed more than a million times after it was shared on Facebook on July 31, 2023.It shows a person assembling a device consisting of a coil, two spark plugs and a light bulb. The bulb lights up when a magnet is placed across the spark plugs. But experts who analysed the device shown in the clips said the claim is false.
Facebook users fall for fake AI-generated image of Pope Francis celebrating mass before massive crowd. Social media users in Catholic-majority Philippines have shared an AI-generated image of Pope Francis in front of a mammoth crowd with the false claim it shows an actual mass the pontiff presided over during World Youth Day in Portugal in early August 2023. The image was in fact generated using the Midjourney tool, its creator told AFP.It includes the hashtag "#WorldYouthDay2023" which refers to the six-day international Catholic jamboree that ran from August 1 to 6 in Portugal's capital Lisbon.The image appears to show the 86-year-old pontiff from the back as he raises both hands in front of a massive crowd.
World Economic Forum did not propose using artificial intelligence to write Bible. artificial intelligence (AI) to create a universal bible. This is false; the WEF never made such remarks and the words for artificial intelligence AI to create a  bible. Similar claims can be found online on platforms including Facebook, Twitter and TikTok and in other online articles.The WEF, an international organization that lobbies politicians, businesses and cultural groups, is a frequent target of misinformation.This recent claim is similarly false, as posts misrepresent remarks made by Israeli historian and author Yuval Noah Harari and incorrectly label him an official at the WEF. 
A misleading  Facebook video viewed more than 1.3 million times with false claims to show footage captured aboard the Titanic-bound submersible before it imploded in the North Atlantic Ocean. This is false; the recording was taken inside a tourist submarine and shows a sunken ship off the coast of Barbados.The clip shows somebody filming a shipwreck through a porthole.The post was published the same day the US Coast Guard said the OceanGate Expeditions tourist submersible suffered a "catastrophic implosion," leaving five people dead. The announcement ended a multinational search for the missing vessel, which lost contact with its mothership less than two hours into its dive to the Titanic's wreckage.
Social media users are suggesting the orange sky was seen over the United States in June 2023 was due to the release of ammonium nitrate, not Canadian wildfires as this is false/  atmospheric scientists confirmed the blazes were to blame, saying smoke particles refract light to change the appearance of the sky.The clip shows somebody filming a shipwreck through a porthole.Stock images and other photos and videos posted to platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, TikTok and YouTube show a ship with what appear to be identical features.The same clip later jumped to Facebook, where it received more than 50,000 views. Another version appeared on Twitter.
Images of Pope Francis wearing pride flag are fake and AI generated.  This is false; visual inconsistencies indicate the pictures were fabricated using artificial intelligence.The photos have circulated elsewhere on Twitter, including in Spanish. The posts come amid a spike in anti-LGBTQ disinformation on social media, which coincides with the celebration of pride month in June.Both posts include #midjourneyv5 and #midjourney, referring to a tool that uses AI to fabricate photos.AFP reached out to Gay Forest for comment, but a response was not forthcoming.
Computer-generated image does not show Elon Musk with ‘robot wife’.Social media users in Nigeria and Ethiopia claim images show tech mogul Elon Musk with a ‘robot wife’ scheduled for commercial release in September 2023. But the photos are fake; the artist who originally created the images shared them on social media and clearly labelled them as computer-generated.The post, shared more than 13,000 times, includes photos of Musk kissing and dancing with different “robot wives”.They have human-like faces, but their bodies appear to be a mix of metal and other human-like features.The user also claims that Musk’s “robot wives” will run on batteries “in accordance with the menstrual cycle”, cost around $3,000, and will be password or fingerprint-protected.
Social media posts sharing footage of sick and dead cows in Italy claim the animals died after being vaccinated against the coronavirus however this is false. the cattle ingested a plant with high levels of a poisonous compound and were not vaccinated against Covid-19, the veterinarian in charge of the case told AFP.The post uses #diedsuddenly, a reference to a 2022 film filled with false claims about Covid-19 vaccination. The clip of the sick cattle also circulated on Instagram and on Facebook in Polish.Reverse image searches indicate the original footage was published in articles covering an August 2022 incident in northwest Italy. AFP reported at the time that around 50 Piedmontese cattle on a farm in Sommariva del Bosco, near Turin, died due to acute prussic acid poisoning.The acid comes from dhurrin, a chemical compound that naturally occurs in plants such as young sorghum, although not in the same high concentrations as those found in samples taken at the site.
Health officials continue to recommend the Covid-19 vaccine during pregnancy for pregnant women, contrary to claims circulating on social media which falsely say it impacts fertility, misinterpreting an advisory from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) about possible changes to a person's menstrual cycle. To date, the jabs have not been linked to adverse outcomes specific to pregnancy, whereas a coronavirus infection does increase the risk of complications, according to experts. "BREAKING: The European Union is now advising against pregnant women getting the COVID vaccine," said a May 31, 2023 tweet. It was shared on Facebook, Instagram, and Telegram in English and French.Another May 31 tweet that spread as a screenshot to Instagram declared: "BREAKING: The European Union is now warning pregnant women not to get the COVID-19 vaccine due to the possibility of infertility and miscarriage."
Social media users have revived debunked claims about a universal basic income bill under consideration in the Senate of Canada, saying it would take away unemployment, health and pension benefits from people who are not vaccinated however  this is false. if passed the bill would only set out a framework the government could use to introduce new benefits, its sponsor said, and it does not include any conditions requiring immunization.Similar claims about the bill were shared in multiple Facebook posts, including one from May 20 warning: "Bill S-233 is currently waiting for third reading in the SENATE, if passed it will be made law which means if you are not vaccinated you will not receive EI, CPP, OHS, Social Services or Pension that YOU PAID INTO."The posts do not specifically mention Covid-19 vaccinations, but follow a wave of misinformation about the shots.
A doctored  and altered X-ray image has been repeatedly shared by Facebook users in Myanmar alongside the misleadingly  claim a patient was told they had inhaled a live cockroach .However, the image has been manipulated to insert the cockroach, and a similar hoax has circulated online since at least 2012.The image was shared here on Facebook by an account with 3,400 followers on February 8, 2022.
Two Filipino doctors and a local celebrity had not promoted a brand of mixed nuts that can replace regular meals, contrary to false Facebook posts that have shared their fabricated endorsements. While different types of nuts have various health benefits, experts say they do not provide adequate nutrition to substitute for daily meals.The lengthy caption adds the product has a range of health benefits including reducing nervous disorders and preventing ageing."How much doc Willie?" asked one Facebook user who seemed interested to buy the product.Another Facebook user complained about the product that was delivered to them and said: "I wish you'd sent me the same product you advertised, what I got was all raisins, you are useless."
Cancer specialists say there is no credible evidence that cutting sugar, consuming coconut oil and drinking hot water with lemon will treat cancer at bay, contradicting posts circulating in Sri Lanka that falsely claim these steps help to prevent or slow the spread of the cancer. The president of the Sri Lanka College of Oncology told AFP that cancer patients should undertake prescribed treatments and that following unsupported claims could have "fatal consequences"."The first step is to stop consumption of all sugar," reads a Facebook post written in Sinhala and English shared on May 7.The post, shared on a page with more than 3,000 followers, lists more than 20 methods to supposedly prevent or treat cancer.It also recommends tips such as eating yellow and purple potatoes and avoiding food three hours before bed.
Filipino doctors did not promote unregistered milk product that 'cures diabetes'.Facebook pages designed to appear as if they are from the state-run Philippine General Hospital (PGH) have shared fabricated news graphics alongside false claims that Filipino doctors discovered a milk product that can "cure diabetes". But endocrinologists say there is currently no cure for the disease, and the Philippine food and drug agency earlier warned against consuming the product.It bears the logo of Philippine broadcaster ABS-CBN News and was published on a page called "PGH-Philippine General Hospital News". It features Dr Litonjua purportedly saying he "discovered a new way" to control the disease.The post -- shared more than 530 times -- links to a website promoting a milk product called Glufarelin.
Facebook posts claim that a photo of an odd-looking creature shows a fish with human characteristics caught in the U.S But the claim is false. the photo is a hyperrealistic artwork created by a Thai artist in 2018 as part of his final-year project.Shared more than 700 times, it features a screengrab showing a fish-like creature with human hands and male genitalia.The picture also circulated in China in 2020 with the claim that the creature was “caught in the South China Sea”. AFP Fact Check debunked a French post making the same claim in the Democratic Republic of Congo.However, the claim that the photo shows a fish with human features is false.
Consuming cold drinks after eating mangoes does not 'cause death’, experts says. Health experts have contradicted Facebook posts shared repeatedly in Bangladesh that claimed consuming cold drinks after eating mangoes can be deadly, saying they were "baseless" and "completely false". The posts cited an alleged case in which a group of tourists apparently died after eating the fruit in neighbouring India, but AFP found no evidence that the incident ever happened.The post goes on to refer to an alleged case in the northern Indian city of Chandigarh, saying: "Recently some tourists while traveling in Chandigarh fell sick and fainted after eating mangoes and drinking cold drinks and were later declared dead in the hospital!”AFP could not find any official reports of deaths following the consumption of cold drinks and mangoes in Chandigarh.Public health experts told AFP that the posts were false.
Document does not show Pfizer's Covid vaccine contains graphene oxide. Social media posts circulating worldwide have shared a document they falsely claim shows Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine contains graphene oxide, a substance that has become the subject of anti-vaccine misinformation. But experts told AFP the document shared in the posts is unrelated to the Pfizer vaccine's ingredients. Its components are public and a spokesman for the pharmaceutical giant said graphene oxide is not used in the manufacture of its vaccines.
BBC report did not say Covid jabs were to blame for UK excess deaths.False posts have circulated worldwide claiming BBC News has "admitted" Covid-19 vaccines are to blame for record excess deaths in the UK in 2022. But the BBC's report on excess deaths those that occurred beyond what would have been expected for the year -- actually says vaccines are not causing the rise in mortality figures. Experts say lasting impacts of the pandemic on healthcare likely drove up deaths in the UK.
Social media posts claim Antiparasitic drug has been proven to treat cancer however this is false. clinical trials are examining whether the drug can help reduce the growth of cancerous tumors, but health experts say it is too early to call the findings a cure and medical authorities warn against taking the antiparasitic unsupervised.Similar claims about ivermectin have circulated in articles and elsewhere on Instagram and Facebook for several months.In the United States, ivermectin is approved to treat tropical diseases such as scabies. The antiparasitic drug is also authorized for certain veterinary conditions.During the pandemic, researchers explored whether ivermectin could treat Covid-19, but studies failed to find a clinical benefit. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the drug for treating viral infections.
Egg destruction video in which the eggs are buried is filmed in Argentina, not United States.This is false; the clip comes from an Argentinian company that was ordered to get rid of the eggs while testing for avian influenza.The 16-second clip shows people in hazmat suits standing by as a bulldozer pushes stacks of egg cartons into a giant hole.The footage spread across platforms such as Twitter and Facebook alongside captions suggesting recent egg shortages are staged or intentional. Some posts explicitly blamed US agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration for the demolition.The posts come after a bird flu outbreak led to egg scarcity and high prices throughout the United States in early 2023. The disease affected more than 58 million birds, according to the US Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Social media users claim a food coating manufactured by the US company Apeel Sciences is harmful  which is false as it is safe.  several posts cite a document unrelated to the product, which extends the longevity of fruits and vegetables and health authorities and experts say there is no evidence it is unsafe.The post includes a screenshot of what appears to be a product safety data sheet warning of several potential health risks. A video shared April 19 on Instagram promotes the same list.Thousands of social media users on platforms such as TikTok and Facebook have posted similar claims in German, French, Czech and Hungarian. The food coating's safety has also been the subject of numerous articles.The claims warn against eating foods with the Apeel sticker, saying the product is a dangerous chemical that causes eye damage and skin reactions.
Multiple Facebook posts shared thousands of times falsely claim that consuming the Stemona curtisii Hook plant often used in traditional medicine in Southeast Asia can cure HIV/AIDS, some cancers and various other diseases. Experts told AFP there is no scientific evidence that the plant can cure any of the listed conditions.The false Burmese-language post was published on Facebook here on March 8, 2023. It has been shared more than 160 times.The post also shared three photos of what appear to be a Stemona curtisii Hook plant.The virus attacks the cells in the body that help fight infections and diseases and can lead to Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). It is primarily contracted during unprotected sex and can be fatal.
Social media posts Claims that Covid-19 vaccines destroy sperm cells are false. public health authorities and experts around the world have found no evidence the shots harm male fertility.The post shares an image with a quote attributed to Arne Burkhardt, a German researcher whom AFP has previously fact-checked for spreading vaccine misinformation.The same claim circulated on Twitter in February 2023. The clip shared in the tweet is part of a longer video posted to Rumble in which Burkhardt discusses messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) Covid-19 vaccines.AFP has previously debunked claims that the shots harm female fertility. Experts say safety monitoring has not detected problems for men, either.
Anti-vaccine advocates are claiming Switzerland banned Covid-19 shots, suggesting they do not work. This is false; the Swiss government is not recommending vaccination for spring and summer 2023 because the coronavirus has been circulating at low levels and its population already has widespread immunity -- in part due to the jabs, which authorities say are safe and effective and remain available on a case-by-case basis.Similar posts spread across Twitter and platforms such as Facebook and Instagram, amplified by right-wing figures and other anti-vaccine activists and groups.But the posts omit context from guidelines that Switzerland's Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH) released days earlier.
Several social media posts claim that the Philippines issued an arrest warrant for Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates in connection with deaths from Covid-19 vaccines, this claim is false. The Supreme Court of the Philippines told AFP Fact Check that no such arrest warrant has been issued for Gates. The posts also link to an article that makes a number of additional false claims.Additionally, the article also claims that the Philippines "banned" Gates from entering the country and requested that Interpol issue an arrest notice for the Microsoft co-founder.The court which allegedly made that request is referred to in the article as the Heinous Crimes Court, located in the country's capital, Manila.The article also claims that the Philippines halted a UN agency tetanus vaccine program after discovering it was "laced with an abortion drug."
Posts falsely claim to show Canadian singer Celine Dion on her deathbed in March 2023. Other posts claimed she had passed away. Dion’s management confirmed that the singer was alive and not the woman who is seen in the clip. AFP Fact Check traced the original video to a TikTok user who said the hospital patient in the footage was her dying cousin who had chosen to donate her organs upon her death.The 30-second clip shows a hospital patient on a ventilator being wheeled down a corridor past medical staff. A group of people follows her, some of whom are crying.A song is played over the scene.The post has been shared more than 8,000 times.
An article and social media posts claim the Canadian Cancer Society encouraged people without cervixes to get cervical cancer screenings however This is false.  the charity recommended transgender women consider all appropriate examinations, as medical professionals say risks can change after gender-affirming surgery.The March 15 article, which also circulated on Facebook and Reddit, features a screenshot from the Canadian Cancer Society (CCS) website.The images crop out the charity's response to the question: "If you're a trans woman and have not had bottom surgery, you aren't at risk for cervical cancer."The CCS website mentions Pap tests, a cervical screening method for detecting early cell changes that can lead to cancer -- but it does not go on to recommend them to transgender women.
Vitamin K shot strongly recommended for newborns and are not dangerous for babies. Pediatric specialists in Canada and the United States recommend giving a single shot of vitamin K to infants just after birth to protect against potentially deadly bleeding. A video shared across social media warns parents to refuse the injection, claiming its ingredients are poisonous -- but experts say the supplement is essential and that all additives included in the jab are safe.The claim stems from another TikTok account, whose post accumulated thousands of shares on Instagram and Facebook before being deleted.The text references Brandy Vaughan, an anti-vaccine activist who died in 2020. The clip, which can be found on Pinterest and YouTube, shows Vaughan on a 2018 segment of the "Alex Jones Show," a program that has previously spread conspiracy theories and medical misinformation.
A video shared across social media claims Canada's prime minister refused to release billions in health care funding to provinces and territories unless they agreed to require the use of digital identifications. This is false; federal and local officials confirmed no such electronic documents will be mandated, despite an agreement to update health data collection. The video on TikTok was viewed more than 15,000 times and shared on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, with its claims repeated in online articles.The claims began spreading at the start of negotiations between Trudeau and the provincial premiers over the updated Canada Health Transfer, funding from the federal government which is infused into the health budgets of provinces and territories.
Facebook advertisements with visuals of US Treasury Department checks and an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) webpage claim to offer new "health credits" to help Americans pay for groceries and various service is false. federal officials say there is no such government program, and experts told AFP the posts appear to use deceptive tactics to obtain personal information. The linked webpage references the American Rescue Plan (ARP), a stimulus bill that Congress passed in 2021 to offset the effects of the coronavirus pandemic.The ARP included subsidies that lowered health care costs, resulting in premium savings of around $800 per year for 13 million qualifying Americans, according to the latest numbers from the White House. The Inflation Reduction Act, which President Joe Biden signed in August 2022, extended some of those benefits.
Social media users falsely  claim an interview with Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel is evidence that the biotechnology company developed a Covid-19 vaccine before the SARS-CoV-2 virus existed.  the virus was discovered in December 2019 and Moderna began working on a vaccine in January 2020.Alongside the claim is a clip from a January 18, 2023 CNBC segment with Bancel.Similar versions of the claim can be found elsewhere on Twitter and other social media platforms including Facebook and TikTok, in multiple languages. Other posts using the same clip include similar comments, feeding into baseless claims that the pandemic was planned.The news outlet was covering the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, a renowned annual gathering where politicians, CEOs, high worth individuals and journalists discuss events of global impact. The event is a frequent target of conspiracy theorists.
Chinese social media users recirculate false claim about 'US Supreme Court ruling on Covid vaccines'.Chinese social media users have shared a screenshot of a year-old article from a US conspiracy site that falsely claims the Supreme Court ruled "the Covid pathogen is not a vaccine and is unsafe" and has cancelled "universal vax". As of March 13, 2023, AFP has found no similar or related cases in the US Supreme Court docket. The United States has not made Covid-19 vaccination mandatory at a federal level for all people. The Covid-19 vaccines available in the US do not contain live viruses and are safe, experts say.The post includes a screenshot of an English-language article with the same claim and the same Chinese text across the bottom of the image.
Research has shown Covid-19 shots are safe for pregnant ladies and help prevent severe illness and death and are not harmful.  but anti-vaccine advocates and Fox News host Tucker Carlson say a new study shows a high risk of miscarriages and other adverse effects. This is false; experts told AFP the claims misrepresent the data, which come from a pre-print that has not been peer-reviewed -- and the coronavirus itself presents a greater risk for pregnancy complications.The post includes a clip with more than 810,000 views that features the paper's author, James Thorp, in an interview with Fox News host Tucker Carlson.
Health experts dismiss baseless warning against eating banana with milk, watermelon or potato. Videos of social media influencers sharing the unfounded advice have attracted millions of views. Nutritionists said there was no scientific basis to advise against this combination and pointed to the high nutritional value of pairing foods like banana and watermelon.The post also shared a 29-second video, which has been viewed more than 1.2 million views since.
Indonesia's health ministry has rubbished and rejected a screenshot shared on Facebook and Twitter that purportedly shows an article it published saying that the sperm of unvaccinated men "will be highly valuable in the future". The screenshot is doctored to look like a genuine article from the ministry's Sehat Negeriku news portal. Health experts have debunked misinformation linking Covid-19 vaccines to fertility problems.The screenshot appears to show an article published on the same day by the Indonesian health ministry's Sehat Negeriku news portal.The post appears to promote the unfounded claim that sperm from donors who are not vaccinated against Covid-19 is higher quality, a theory based on misinformation that the jabs harm fertility.
A video of protesters has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in Chinese-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows a demonstration against reforms to China's vast public health insurance system in the country's second-largest city Shanghai. The video in fact shows a rally against the reforms in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, not Shanghai.The video, which has been viewed more than 195,000 times, was shared on Twitter here on February 19, 2023.The clip circulated after hundreds of retirees staged protests in Wuhan in central China and Dalian in the northeast earlier in the month.Protests are rare in China, where authorities strictly enforce public order laws and opposition is quickly snuffed out.Protests are rare in China, where authorities strictly enforce public order laws and opposition is quickly snuffed out.
A 2021 study on egg yolk antibodies has been shared by social media users to falsely claim it shows eggs can prevent Covid-19 infections in humans, with some also misleadingly linking the study to egg shortages in the United States and New Zealand. One of the study's researchers told AFP it was conducted with a modified version of the virus and that it is unclear if the egg yolk antibody has similar effects in human bodies without further testing.The Twitter post includes a link to and a screenshot of a study titled "Chicken Egg Yolk Antibodies (IgYs) block the binding of multiple SARS-CoV-2 spike protein variants to human ACE2", which was published in the peer-reviewed journal International Immunopharmacology in January 2021.The same claim and screenshot of the study were shared by users in the United States here and in Australia here in a Telegram group with nearly 20,000 users.




Social media users have repeatedly shared a false claim that Japan has launched an official investigation into "millions" of Covid-19 vaccine related deaths. However, Japanese government data does not show widespread deaths from the jabs. There is also no evidence Japan has launched the investigation claimed in the posts.The claim was also shared in Facebook posts here and here with screengrabs of an article from News Punch that also largely repeats the claim. The website has published false claims previously debunked by AFP.However, the claim is false. A search of the Japanese health ministry's latest press releases did not reveal any announcement about an official investigation into the "millions" of Covid-19 vaccine-related deaths as claimed in the misleading posts.
After China witnessed a surge in its Covid death toll, a video of a rescue robot was viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claimed it shows an automatic corpse disposer  in the country. AFP tracked the footage down to fire safety videos from Japan that have circulated online since 2012. The Tokyo Fire Department told AFP it shows a robot designed to assist firefighters that had not been used since 2020.The claim, written in traditional Chinese, was accompanied by a 53-second video that appears to show medical personnel wearing protective gear assisting patients on a street. Clips of a machine scooping up a person also appear multiple times.The claim began to circulate online after China's strict Covid-19 containment policy was abruptly lifted in early December. Chinese hospitals were inundated with mostly elderly patients, crematoriums were overwhelmed, and many pharmacies ran out of fever medications.
Facebook posts advertising a heart supplement in the Philippines falsely claim it was developed by a specialist heart hospital and endorsed by a prominent phillpino cardiologist. The posts link to a purported interview with cardiologist Rody Sy on a website that has been mocked up to appear as though it belongs to the Philippine Heart Center. But both the hospital and Dr Sy separately said they were not affiliated with the product, which the archipelago nation's food and drug regulator warned against using in 2020. The post includes a link to a website featuring a preview image that appears to show a doctor next to a product called "Heart Keep". According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a blood pressure of 120/80 is considered normal for adults. High blood pressure, or hypertension, can significantly increase the risk of heart, brain, kidney and other diseases when left untreated.
South Korea's government health insurance agency has rebuked Facebook posts falsely presenting data on cancer patients' insurance claims as an increase in cancer cases due to Covid-19 vaccines. There is no evidence that Covid-19 vaccines cause cancer. As of February 2023, South Korea had not yet published data on the number of new cancer cases since its vaccine rollout began in 2021.The datasheet is credited to South Korea's Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service (HIRA), a government agency responsible for reviewing and evaluating healthcare costs and services.It alleges Covid-19 vaccines are the "direct cause" of the purported rise in the number of cancer cases.
Social media users are sharing recent images of rescue dogs that were supposedly taken after an earthquake devastated Turkey and Syria on February 6, 2023 but they are very old photos so This is false. the pictures appeared on stock photo platforms as early as 2018. The tweet accumulated more than 1.5 million views. Other posts sharing similar or identical images of dogs among ruins gained traction across the world in multiple languages.The claims come after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck southeast Turkey at approximately 0117 GMT on February 6, the country's biggest disaster since 1939. More than 6,200 people have died in Turkey and neighboring Syria, and tens of thousands more are estimated to have been injured. But the dog images predate the quake they have been online since at least 2018, as AFP has previously reported.


A website that regularly peddles misinformation has falsely claimed Covid-19 vaccines can cause AIDS, citing a German government report. In fact, the report made no reference to AIDS, a potentially life-threatening condition. Health experts separately told AFP that AIDS has no link to Covid-19 vaccines. The tweet -- shared by an account with more than 24,000 followers -- shows a screenshot of an article by NewsPunch, a US website that regularly shares misinformation.It claims German government data found that Covid-19 vaccines can cause "vaccine-induced acquired immunodeficiency syndrome", however, this syndrome does not exist.It cites a report published in December 2021 by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), Germany's public health agency, that was produced as part of a weekly series on the EU country's coronavirus situation.
Social media posts viewed thousands of times claim colorectal cancer is on the rise due to "toxins" from food cooked in microwave ovens but no proof and evidence of it found. This is false; the rate of this type of cancer is trending lower in the United States, and there is no proven link to microwaves.Similar claims circulated on Twitter and TikTok, amplifying a long-running but unsubstantiated fear about microwaves and cancer.The more recent posts also have no scientific basis -- and they misrepresent colon cancer trends.The overall incidence of colorectal cancer in the US, a leading cause of cancer deaths, has declined since the mid-1980s, according to data from the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society. This is in part due to earlier detection and removal of polyps before they become cancerous.
Social media posts claim the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) recently changed its heart health guidelines to keep pilots flying despite possible adverse impacts from Covid-19 vaccines. This is false; the change took place in 2017, and officials say there is no indication the shots have led to widespread heart damage among cockpit crews. Fox News host Tucker Carlson cited Kirsch's post in a January 17 segment on his show. The claim also spread on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and TikTok -- including in French.The posts follow other assertions that Covid-19 vaccines are responsible for pilot deaths, which aviation agencies previously told AFP are unsupported.
Social media posts claim the US  FAA recently changed its heart health guidelines because of baseless and wrong assumptions that  covid-19 vaccine harms pilot. This is false; the change took place in 2017, and officials say there is no indication the shots have led to widespread heart damage among cockpit crews. "After the vaccine rolled out, the FAA secretly widened the EKG parameter range for pilots so they wouldn't be grounded. It looks like the vax gave at least 50M Americans heart damage."Fox News host Tucker Carlson cited Kirsch's post in a January 17 segment on his show. The claim also spread on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and TikTok -- including in French.The posts follow other assertions that Covid-19 vaccines are responsible for pilot deaths, which aviation agencies previously told AFP are unsupported.
Bill Gates did not call for 'death panels' for the sick at G20 summit.The billionaire philanthropist did not attend the event. The claims in fact take comments Gates made during a 2010 interview out of context. The full interview shows Gates made no mention about a need to cull the population; he mentioned "death panels" as part of a conversation about what he described as the trade-off between high medical costs and cuts in other sectors.The screenshot includes a picture of the American billionaire.The false claim about Gates promoting  to world leaders was also shared in similar Facebook posts and article in Hungarian here and here, as well as in Finnish and Czech.
Articles and social media posts claim people can inadvertently receive messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines by eating meat from inoculated farm animals. This is false; experts say that is not how mRNA vaccines work, and there are no such shots approved for livestock in the US.The claims are attributed to Robert Malone, a physician who in the late 1980s contributed to the development of mRNA vaccines. Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, however, he has repeatedly promoted misinformation about vaccination.Natural News, an alternative health website whose Facebook page was banned in 2019 for violating spam rules, published another article about livestock and vaccines on January 16. Similar claims have circulated widely on Twitter.
A video circulating on social media around the world shows American physician Betsy Eads falsely claiming that Malaysia executed a doctor for "killing a patient" with a Covid-19 vaccine. Malaysia imposed a moratorium on executions when the government announced it would abolish the death penalty in 2018, years before Covid-19 vaccine rollouts. A rights group and a lawyer said that no execution had taken place in Malaysia since 2018. The video shows US doctor Betsy Eads -- who has previously spread Covid-19 vaccine misinformation -- speaking to the Conservative Business Journal Podcast. The Nuremberg Code is a set of ethical principles for human experimentation, such as voluntary consent and avoiding unnecessary suffering.
Multiple social media posts falsely claim German researchers have confirmed gargling with salt water kills the coronavirus that causes Covid-19. But AFP found no such study. A scientist who led a similar study in 2020 -- which found certain commercial mouthwashes could reduce the risk of virus transmission -- said mouthwashes are ineffective in treating Covid-19. There is no scientific evidence that salt water gargling can prevent or treat Covid-19, according to health experts.An accompanying 58-second clip showing stock videos of medical professionals working in a lab and sanitising streets and buildings has been viewed more than 2,000 times.The claim began to circulate online after China abandoned its zero-Covid strategy on December 7.AFP has previously debunked a claim that taking showers would worsen Covid-19 infections.
Social media users claim the Covid-19 vaccine caused a Canadian news journalist to nearly collapse on live TV is not true. This is false; the journalist has refuted the speculation, and public health authorities say the shots are safe and effective at preventing severe illness and death.The claim has also circulated on Twitter, where a January 8, 2023 tweet says: "DISTURBING: Young female reporter, Jessica Robb has a medical episode live on air. She posted on her Facebook page that she has been vaccinated three times. #diedsuddenly."In the video shared online, Robb gives a live report for the Canadian Television Network (CTV) in Edmonton, Alberta. She soon stumbles over her words and appears to have a medical emergency.
Social media posts claim dietary supplements can reverse memory loss and cognitive decline, citing a discovery of the "true cause" of Alzheimer's disease. This is false; researchers and health officials say no cure or single cause has been identified for Alzheimer's, and that supplements alleging otherwise are unregulated and may be harmful.The webpage links to a video promoting a supplement called Neurotinix, which supposedly contains probiotics and plant ingredients such as peppermint and strawberry. While there is considerable research ongoing on Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia, health experts say there is no known cure or primary cause. Other alternative therapies have been studied and shown to offer little or no clinical benefit, according to the UK-based Alzheimer's Society.
As China battled a wave of coronavirus cases in December 2022 in the wake of the government's sudden decision to lift years of lockdowns, a video was viewed thousands of times in social media posts that falsely claimed this loosening of Covid restrictions was being reversed. The posts said authorities in the central city of Xi’an had announced that citywide Covid tests would be carried out and a negative result would be needed to enter shops and public areas. The video, however, shows a government official’s statement from a year earlier.

Video shows magnetic liquid in art project, not 'poisonous vaccine ingredients in blood'. A video appearing to show the movement of dark blobs and liquid is circulating in Facebook posts that falsely claim it shows poison from a vaccine injected into the bloodstream. The clip in fact shows a project by a Poland-based artist on the manipulation of magnetic liquids. Health authorities say that Covid-19 vaccines are safe and effective.The clip shows several large, dark blobs moving around and interacting with liquid, leaving behind trails of maze-like patterns.The same video was shared in similar posts on Facebook, and on South Korean forums including DC Inside and Naver Band.
Grant Wahl died from aortic aneurysm, not from Covid-19 vaccination, wife says.This is false; an autopsy determined the acclaimed football writer died from a rupture to the main artery that carries blood away from the heart, according to a statement from his wife.The claims come after Wahl, 49, collapsed in the press box during the quarter-final World Cup match between Argentina and the Netherlands and died on December 9. Best known for his reporting on football, Wahl spent much of his career with Sports Illustrated, where he wrote the iconic cover story on then-teenager Lebron James.In 2021, Wahl praised the Covid-19 vaccines on Twitter and shared that he had received his first dose of the two-shot Pfizer product.
Social media users in the Philippines have repeatedly shared posts that falsely promote a barley grass drink as a cure for multiple medical conditions, including cancer and AIDS, saying it has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Health experts told AFP that while barley is a supplement that has some health benefits, it cannot cure or treat diseases unrelated to the digestive system. Keyword searches on the FDA's website found no registration for the product.A set of photos featuring a product named "Green Barley with tropical fruit powder juice drink mix" was posted on Facebook on November 19."There is only one such product. Green Barley is 100% Pure Organic Powder Juice from Utah, USA. So many patients have been cured, proving that the natural way is safer and more effective," the caption says.
Combined Covid and flu self-test kits do not 'prove the two diseases are the same'. Photos showing a combined Covid-19 and influenza self-test kit have been repeatedly shared in social media posts that falsely claim the two diseases are the same. Scientists agree that Covid-19 and the flu are caused by different viruses. The kits featured in the posts have been designed to recognise Covid-19 and influenza viral particles, an infectious diseases professor told AFP.A photo showing boxes of a combined test kit for Covid-19 and influenza was shared with the false claim on Twitter on November 27.The boxes show the logo of Fanttest, one of two combined Covid-19 and influenza self-test kits approved by Australia's drugs regulator Therapeutic Goods Administration.The kits were approved in September following a winter surge of Covid-19 and flu cases.Reduced mobility from two years of pandemic restrictions led to limited immunity to the common winter virus.
Videos advertising a purported cure for various stomach problems and diseases have been viewed millions of times in Philippine social media posts that falsely claim the product has been approved by the country's Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A representative for the FDA told AFP that "Hera Nano Curcumin Milk" was not a registered product, and it should not be consumed. Medical specialists separately told AFP the milk product does not cure stomach diseases.A video touting "Hera Nano Curcumin Milk" has been viewed over 1.2 million times since it was posted here on Facebook on September 21, 2022.The video begins with a voiceover warning about leaving stomach diseases untreated.But "Hera Nano Curcumin Milk" is not a registered food product, a representative for the FDA told AFP on November 22.
South Korean influencer had suspected epileptic seizure, did not 'die during livestream'.A video of a man collapsing has been viewed millions of times in social media posts that falsely claim it shows a South Korean who died during a livestream. The person in the video -- South Korean influencer Park Jung-kyu -- did not die. He told his audience in a later livestream that he had fainted due to fatigue. Park has since posted that doctors suspect he suffered an epileptic seizure, and he planned to resume his live broadcasts soon.The post includes a 28-second screen recording of a video shared in an English-language tweet.The clip, which has been viewed more than 300 times in the Facebook post, shows four people talking before the person on the left begins to turn around and collapse.
A berry-bearing plant called black nightshade is poisonous and should not be consumed as a herbal remedy for cancer, diabetes and other illnesses, experts say. The plant has not been approved for use as traditional medicine in Thailand, experts told AFP, refuting false Thai-language posts touting black nightshade that have been circulating online for years. False claims about black nightshade were shared on Facebook on March 8, 2022.Accompanying the claims are 11 photos of what appear to be a black nightshade plant.The same claims have been shared repeatedly elsewhere on Facebook in Thailand in 2021, 2020, 2018 and 2017.But experts told AFP that consuming black nightshade could be harmful, and the plant has not been found to treat the diseases mentioned in the posts.
As China deployed security services across several major cities to quell nationwide protests in November 2022, a clip that appears to show a police car hitting a crowd has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in false social media posts claiming it was filmed in Shanghai. In reality, the video was shot in Washington state in the United States in January 2021.The clip has been viewed more than 470,000 times since it was shared on Twitter on November 28, 2022.The eight-second clip appears to show a police car running into a crowd and driving away.The post circulated as China mobilised its vast security apparatus to smother protests across the country, with frustration over heavy-handed Covid rules bubbling over after a fire in a locked down building in Urumqi in the northwestern Xinjiang region killed 10 people last week, AFP reported.
More than 80 percent of Canadians have been vaccinated against Covid-19, but social media posts claim that Canada will mandate psychiatric medication for people refusing the jab which is not true. This is false; the posts misinterprets guidance from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario (CPSO) that encourages physicians to discuss medication or therapy with patients who display anxious and avoidant behaviors -- including debilitating fear of needles -- rather than exempting them from vaccination.Some of the posts include a video interview of William Makis, an Alberta doctor who has shared misinformation, by Laura-Lynn Tyler Thompson, leader of the Christian Heritage Party of British Columbia.A spokesperson for the CPSO told AFP on November 24: "This false interpretation that is being disseminated has no basis in fact or reality."
International Court of Justice did not order countries to scrap Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Social media users in Thailand falsely claim that the International Court of Justice has ordered all countries to stop administering Covid-19 vaccines over health concerns. The court does not have the power to tell countries to cease vaccinations, legal experts said, and has not handled any cases involving Covid-19 vaccination, as of November 29. Health authorities say the benefits of Covid-19 vaccination far outweigh the risks.The International Court of Justice, sometimes known as the world court, is the United Nations' highest court.The post attributes the information to German lawyer Reiner Fuellmich -- who has previously shared false claims about the pandemic and Covid-19 vaccines -- and links to a now-deleted blog post on Thai platform Blockdit sharing the same claim.
Burmese posts falsely claim hot water with chilli powder mixture can treat heart attacks.Social media users in Myanmar have repeatedly shared a false claim that someone having a heart attack can be saved if they drink a mixture of hot water and chilli powder. But health experts told AFP there is no scientific evidence to support the claim, adding that following this advice -- instead of immediately seeking medical help -- is potentially harmful.The text also suggests details of this method can be found in the post's comments section.The collage, which was shared in a Facebook group with more than 1.7 million members, appears to show red chillies and a spoon of chilli powder next to tea being poured into cups.
Korean posts falsely claim G20 'agreed to mandate vaccine passports and inoculations'. Multiple Korean-language posts have shared false claims that world leaders who attended the G20 summit on the resort island of Bali in Indonesia in November 2022 "agreed to make vaccinations and vaccine passports mandatory". The G20 leaders' declaration, however, only affirms the importance of vaccinations and proof of vaccination -- it does not include agreements about making either mandatory. The foreign ministry of South Korea -- a G20 member -- told AFP that no other agreements on vaccines had been reached at the summit."World is going mad," reads a Korean-language Facebook post shared here on November 22, 2022.The article also features two photos. While the photo of Chinese President Xi Jinping with US President Joe Biden was captured at the recent Bali G20 summit, that of Xi and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was taken at the 2016 Hangzhou G20 summit.
A photo of a child dying while clinging onto a father lying on the ground has been shared on Twitter alongside a claim that it was taken in Ethiopia’s Amhara and Oromia regions, However, this is false.  the image shows a Rwandan boy next to his dad who died of cholera in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in 1994.
Oromia is Ethiopia’s largest federal state and is home to the Oromo, the country’s biggest ethnic group who have long complained of marginalisation.Even as rivals in Ethiopia’s Tigray war agreed to a ceasefire on November 2, 2022, reports of fighting and massacres emerged in Oromia, a region haunted by a long-running insurgency.The ongoing fighting between Ethiopian government troops and the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) rebels has led to dozens of casualties in the recent weeks.
Old footage of Bill Gates speaking about Covid-19 vaccines is circulating in social media posts that falsely link his comments to a wave of child deaths in Indonesia from kidney problems. The posts falsely claim the billionaire philanthropist predicted that side effects from the vaccines would appear after two years, apparently blaming the jabs for the deaths. However, Gates was in fact calling for authorities to approve Covid-19 vaccines quickly, not "predicting" side effects. Indonesian authorities linked the deaths to syrup medicines which have since been banned, not Covid-19 vaccines.
A TikTok video shared thousands of times alleges that drinking a mixture of bitter kola and lemon juice will “enlarge the male genital for increased pleasure during sexual activity (sic)”  But the claim has no foundation and evidence according to experts. Doctors say the size of a man’s penis is determined by genetics and cannot be made bigger with herbal remedies.A woman in the clip explains in Yoruba that her advice will help men with small genitals.The TikTok account sharing the video has more than 90,000 followers and a history of promoting content about herbal mixtures.But experts say there is no substance to the assertion.
Video shows people fleeing during shooting scare at Texas fair, not to avoid Covid quarantine in China.A video showing panicked people running across a fairground has been viewed thousands of times in false posts about people in China fleeing in order to avoid being sent to a Covid-19 quarantine camp. In fact, the clip shows an incident in the US state of Texas in which a man allegedly made online threats to attack a county fair that "caused alarm", according to a statement issued by the local sheriff's office. The man was later arrested, police said.The eight-second clip has been viewed almost 5,000 times since it was posted on Twitter  on September 29, 2022.It shows screaming people running through a carnival as alarms blare in the background.The health code requires residents to scan a QR code at entrances to offices, malls, restaurants and other premises to bring up their latest Covid test results.
Image of tear gas victims in Chad used in false posts claiming to show South Africans killed by mosquito pills.Zimbabweans have been the target of malicious claims on social media .Images have recently circulated with claims that a family in South Africa died after taking lethal tablets sold to them as a mosquito repellant by Zimbabweans. This is false; there is no link between the images of the pills and of the people on the floor, who were tear-gassed in Chad. South African police also denied the claim.While the grey pills seen in the posts are potentially fatal if ingested, they have no link to the people on the floor in the adjacent images.
False posts claim Nobel winning scientist Yoshinori Ohsumi recommended fasting to cure cancer. False social media posts with tens of thousands of shares worldwide claim the Japanese scientist Yoshinori Ohsumi, who won the 2016 Nobel Medicine Prize, recommended fasting to cure cancer. Ohsumi's research has led to a new understanding of how disruptions on cell "recycling" can cause diseases such as cancer. However, AFP did not find evidence he made the remarks in the posts. Multiple health experts told AFP fasting does not cure cancer and warned doing so could be dangerous for patients.The false post was shared by an India-based Facebook user on August 26, 2022.The post states: "He is Japanese cell biologist Yoshinori Ohsumi, specialist in Autophagy.Ohsumi won the Nobel Medicine Prize in 2016 for his work on autophagy -- a process whereby cells "eat themselves".
Facebook posts shared tens of thousands of times in Myanmar and Malaysia claim that rubbing a boiled egg over a child's body can treat a fever. Posts about the treatment promote it as originating from Chinese traditional medicine. These claims, however, are false. Medical experts told AFP there is no evidence a boiled egg can cure fever, and said it has no links to traditional Chinese medicine.The claim was published on Facebook here on October 6, 2022.The post, which includes photos of a boiled egg and a young child, has been shared more than 18,000 times.The post's Burmese-language caption translates to English as: “For child fever and high body temperature, this remedy can be used if the clinics are closed at night.
Video falsely claims vaccinated individuals are no longer human . A video claims people vaccinated against Covid-19 are "genetically modified" and have been re-classified as "homoborgenesis," citing a supposed NASA study as a fake evidence. This is false; the US agency told AFP it has done no research on the subject, and leading health authorities have repeatedly debunked claims that the shots alter human DNA. Callender says in the video that the Covid-19 vaccine alters a person's DNA, claiming these "genetically modified people are now referred to as homoborgenesis, not homo sapiens." As evidence, he cites a purported research paper on fifth-generation warfare from NASA's Langley Research Center, which studies air, space and earth science. The clip was shared across social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and TikTok. Similar claims appeared on websites such as BitChute and Reddit.
An article circulating on Facebook in South Korea claims a type of infertility test can reveal how many sexual partners a woman has had But medical experts told AFP there is currently no test that can show how many sexual partners a person has had. They said the infertility test cited in the posts -- which detects the presence of anti-sperm antibodies inside a person -- can only be used to investigate the causes of infertility.South Korean posts falsely claim infertility test can 'reveal woman's sexual history' . The post links to an article on tabloid news site Adsensima about a man whose wife allegedly took an anti-sperm antibody test after struggling to get pregnant.

A Facebook post shared thousands of times claims that chewing the bark of the cashew tree will “destroy snake venom”, including the highly toxic bite from a black mamba but no evidence of this found . This is false: experts say only antivenoms can counteract the effects of a venomous snake bite and that herbal or other traditional remedies serve no purpose in neutralising the toxins. Indigenous to southern and eastern Africa, the black mamba is considered one of the world’s deadliest snakes, with its bite capable of killing within hours.The post has been shared more than 13,000 times and was published by a Facebook account promoting traditional medicines.But the claim that chewing the bark of cashew trees cures snake bites is false.
Facebook posts claim a dietary supplement can restore vision for people with failing eyesight and serious eye diseases, suggesting the product was derived from research on zebrafish which is not true . This is false; no human trials have been conducted, researchers said the zebrafish studies were not related to a specific product, and specialists in ophthalmology say such conditions cannot be reversed with a pill.No studies are under way on humans in this field, according to Patton, and to move in that direction, "you'd have to do careful and rigorous control experiments to see if (the ingredients) are safe and if they are doing what they claim."
UK government has not scrapped Covid-19 vaccination for children aged five to 11. Social media posts shared thousands of times claim the UK government has scrapped Covid-19 vaccination for children aged five to 11 over concerns about side effects. This is incorrect; children are eligible for the jab if they have turned five before September 2022. Children who turn five on or after September 1 are only eligible if they are clinically vulnerable or are living with someone who is. Some scientists criticised the cutoff and pointed to the benefits of vaccinating children."The jab was also banned from children who had not turned five by the end of last month. This decision was due to concerns with developmental side effects in children. Wow."The post garnered more than 17,000 retweets, with variations of it shared around the world, including in Australia, Canada and Mexico.
Fabricated video falsely promotes 'cure-all supplement for liver disease' in the Philippines. A purported news report about a liver supplement with "guaranteed therapeutic effects" supposedly approved by Philippine health authorities and endorsed by doctors has been viewed more than one million times on Facebook. However, the video has been created from old news and advertising clips in order to promote an unregistered supplement that the Philippine Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said it had not approved.The video was posted here on Facebook on August 4, 2022. It has been viewed more than one million times.At the video's 18-second mark, it shows a purported interview with Ian Homer Cua, president of the Hepatology Society of the Philippines (HSP) who has since said in a Facebook post that his image was used to create "fake news" for the supplement advert.
As public healthcare system faced growing pressure amidst an unprecedented economic crisis, social media users in the island nation claimed that a "miracle porridge" could "kill cancer cells". so, Sri Lankan social media users share false herbal 'cancer cure' as economic crisis hits hospitals. The posts -- shared hundreds of times -- advised people to drink the purported remedy on an empty stomach. But Sri Lankan oncology specialists and indigenous medicine practitioners warned there was no scientific evidence that it can cure cancer.  A recipe for the "miracle porridge that kills cancer cells" was published in this Facebook post on September 9, 2022. It has been shared more than 150 times."Then, add the juice of katupila leaves and water into the porridge, and drink it on an empty stomach."
Australian authorities are not set to release cholera vaccine 'via chemtrails' over Queensland.The claim, however, is false. A US-based health expert who was involved in the vaccine's development told AFP it is taken orally and there was "no scientifically plausible" reason to disperse it from the air. A representative for the vaccine's manufacturer said it has to be ingested to provide protection.It links to an article on a website called the Australian National Review, a post on the social networking site LinkedIn, and an ABC News article.The posts reference the Vaxchora vaccine, made by US biotech company PaxVax. It protects against cholera in adults and children over two years old.AFP has repeatedly debunked the chemtrail conspiracy theory, which baselessly claims that white streaks left behind by aircraft are spreading chemicals or viruses.
Facebook posts shared hundreds of times claim doctors in the Philippines have endorsed a brand of eye drops that can allegedly "solve all eye problems" however  This is false. the posts show a fabricated medical endorsement for an unregistered product. A representative for the Philippine Academy of Ophthalmology told AFP no single medication can "solve all eye problems".A website link for a product called "Shiliwangxiongdanye Healthy Eye Care" has been shared more than 900 times on Facebook since May 18.The link's thumbnail shows a group of people identified as the "Philippine Ophthalmological Association". They are shown holding up a sign that says: "97% cure rate / Safe and effective".The text "FDA Approved" is also shown in the image.
Footage of training exercise shared in false posts about 'stabbing victims' at Malaysian hospital. Footage of medics tending to two men, one of whom appears to have a large knife protruding from his chest, has been viewed thousands of times after it circulated in social media posts claiming it shows victims of a bloody fight at Taiping Hospital in the Malaysian state of Perak. However, the footage shows hospital staff taking part in a training exercise. Local police said there had been no reports of a stabbing at the hospital.The 34-second video, which has garnered more than 490 views, shows medics carrying two men who appear to be covered in blood on stretchers. One man clutches at a knife that appears to be sticking out of his chest.Taiping Hospital is a government-run hospital in Taiping, in Malaysia's state of Perak. 
Facebook and Twitter posts have circulated worldwide falsely claiming the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) has modified its page in September to recommend the anti-parasite drug ivermectin for Covid-19. A spokesperson for the NIH told AFP on September 6 the agency "recommends against the use of ivermectin" for Covid-19. A review of the archives of the NIH website shows the agency has not recently altered its stance on the drug -- its last update on April 29, 2022 does not recommend ivermectin as a treatment for the coronavirus.The post features a screenshot of a page from the NIH website -- titled "Antiviral Therapy" -- that shares available data on several antiviral medications in relation to Covid-19.Similar posts on Facebook and Twitter claim the section was updated in September, criticising the NIH for supposedly reversing its stance on ivermectin.
The United Kingdom recommends Covid-19 vaccines for those who are pregnant, but in late August 2022 social media users said the country had abruptly reversed course as UK did not change it. This is false; the claims stem from a misreading of guidance published almost two years earlier at the start of the vaccine rollout and do not reflect the UK government's current position. The tweet, a version of which appeared in a popular Instagram post, was one of dozens of posts surfaced to AFP by VineSight, a firm that uses artificial intelligence to detect potential online misinformation. The earliest tweet VineSight identified was published August 29 and received more than 7,000 retweets.The post, from an account that has since been suspended, sparked a wave of similar claims on Twitter, Facebook and Telegram. Similar posts also appeared in French.
Image does not show Slovenian nurse revealing 'vaccine bottle code during resignation speech'.This is false. AFP found the head nurse at the medical centre did not resign, and the "code" pictured in the posts does not relate to types of Covid-19 vaccines.The claim was widely shared alongside an image of the purported nurse in Serbia, New Zealand, Australia, the US, the Philippines and Canada.The posts refer to the alleged resignation of the head nurse at the University Medical Centre in Ljubljana (UKCL) over a purported vaccination scandal.AFP Belgrade previously debunked similar posts in Serbian language after they circulated in November 2021.The local police and Slovenian media outlet 24ur.com also labelled the original video as misinformation.
Australian social media users claim a new study proves natural Covid-19 infection provides better protection against the disease than vaccination which is not true.  He also citing a graph that appears to show hospital admissions in the state of New South Wales. The posts, shared hundreds of times, go on to say that vaccinated people are developing acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). However, the author of the study  which has not been peer-reviewed  told AFP it had been "distorted", saying vaccination was still the best protection against the disease. Medical experts have previously told AFP that there is no evidence that Covid-19 vaccines can cause AIDS.The claim was shared here on Instagram alongside an image of what appears to be a newspaper page.It was posted on August 15, 2022 by an account with more than 37,000 followers.
Social media users are sharing a baseless and fabricated  photo which say  US basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson, who has HIV the virus that can lead to AIDS -- donating blood for Covid-19 patients. This is false; the claim stems from a self-described satire page, and the image shows Johnson submitting blood for laboratory testing in 2012.. The rumor appears to stem from an August 18, 2022 tweet by an account whose bio says it spreads "narratives with misinformation (satire)."Both Johnson and the American Red Cross have also refuted the claims.The American Red Cross, a major supplier of donated blood in the US, added in a statement sent to AFP: "This viral rumor is not true."The physician who drew Johnson's blood is David Ho, currently the director of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center at Columbia University. Ho confirmed to AFP that the rumor circulating online is baseless.
No evidence titanium dioxide in tampon strings causes cancer. is found  A video with millions of views on TikTok claims titanium dioxide, an ingredient in many tampons, causes cancer and other gynecological and reproductive issues. This is misleading; the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the compound's use in food and cosmetics, and experts say no studies have proven a link between tampon strings and cancer in humans.In the clip, the woman holds a box of L. brand organic tampons and claims they caused someone to suffer "excessive bleeding with extreme pain, ovarian cysts and irreversible uterine damage." The video amassed more than 1.5 million likes.Titanium dioxide is a naturally occurring mineral that is frequently used as a whitening agent in products such as paint and toothpaste.

Posts falsely claim rubbing hydrogen peroxide on your skin can treat cancer, A video viewed millions of times in posts on Facebook, TikTok and Telegram claims that rubbing hydrogen peroxide solution on your skin can treat cancer. which is totally baseless and not true .  The posts circulated online in various languages, from English to Malaysian and Croatian. Medical experts and cancer organisations say there is no evidence to support the claim and warn that rubbing hydrogen peroxide on one's skin can cause irritation, blisters or burns.The one-minute, 56-second video was shared on Facebook by a Malaysia-based user on June 29, 2022.The footage has been watched more than 6.5 million times after it circulated with a similar claim in English on TikTok and in Croatian on Facebook. 
Multiple social media posts shared hundreds of times claim that the latest outbreak of monkeypox is only occurring in countries that have administered Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine which is not true. The posts go on to claim the World Health Organization (WHO) "has not received a single report" of monkeypox from countries not administering the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Medical experts, however, told the AFP there is no evidence linking the virus, which has existed for decades, to the Covid vaccine. As of August 9, 2022, most countries that were administering the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine had not recorded cases of monkeypox. ConvThe top map includes the WHO's logo and purports to show countries that have reported monkeypox cases since May 2022. several countries including India, Russia and Venezuela -- where the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine has not been distributed had reported monkeypox cases.
An image has been shared repeatedly in Korean-language social media posts that falsely claim it shows a poster issued by Japan's health ministry warning against receiving a fourth dose of the Covid-19 vaccine due to the risk of decreased immunity. The image has also been shared elsewhere alongside a claim it was issued by the Japan Medical Association (JMA), the country's largest doctors' association. These claims, however, are false. The poster was issued by a voluntary doctors' group in Japan that opposes additional Covid-19 jabs. Japan's health ministry and the JMA both recommend vaccinations for vulnerable groups, and health experts told AFP there is no evidence multiple vaccine doses weaken immunity.
Doctored video touting unproven diabetes treatment circulates online in the Philippines. A video has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times that appears to show a Philippine news report touting a herbal supplement for diabetics as an alternative to using insulin which is totally fabricated and not true. However, the video has been doctored from a report about diabetic Filipinos to insert references to the supplement. Doctors told AFP there was "no evidence" that such supplements can treat diabetes in humans or replace their insulin treatments. The doctored video has been viewed more than 100,000 times after it was shared on Facebook on July 21. It purports to show a news segment from TV Patrol -- a nightly news programme on Philippine television channel ABS-CBN. The clip begins with journalist Pinky Webb saying: "People with diabetes are getting younger and younger. And from the recent World Diabetes Day, here are some tips to prevent the deadly disease."
Satirical report of WHO chief's 'arrest' shared as genuine news article. Social media posts shared hundreds of times in July 2022 falsely claim that Interpol arrested World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus "for crimes against humanity and genocide". The claim, which circulated in multiple languages, was shared in some posts alongside a screenshot or a link to a purported news article about Tedros' arrest. However, the claim originated from a satirical website, and Interpol told AFP that Tedros had not been arrested.But others appeared to recognise the claim originated from a satirical website and should not be "taken seriously". A further search on the Vancouver Times' website found that its About Us page states it is a satirical website.
Social media users are sharing an image of what appears to be a Sky News article presenting vaccines as a solution to the climate crisis But the photo is manipulated. the British broadcaster said it never published the story and there is no evidence any other news sites have, either. Sky News did not publish the article shared online. AFP did not find any credible news outlets that published the text in the image  nor did the social media posts include a link to the purported story. The posts are part of a broader trend in which social media users share manipulated images that co-opt the names and logos of news outlets. AFP has previously debunked similar claims about CNN and the conflicts in Ukraine and Afghanistan.
A video has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times after it circulated in social media posts that misleadingly  claim  people being handcuffed while undergoing mass Covid-19 tests in China. The video was shared as China continues to impose mass testing and citywide lockdowns in a bid to quash new outbreaks. The claim, however, is false. The video was taken in April 2022, during a police raid on a pornography ring in Lanzhou, northwestern China.The 28-second video, which shows people standing in line, with their hands apparently handcuffed behind their backs while armed police guard them, was posted on Twitter on July 15, 2022.However, the video has been shared in a false context.
An image circulating on social media is said to show a Canadian news agency's article about the vaccination policy of summer camps sponsored by the Tim Hortons Foundation But the article is not authentic. The Canadian Press told AFP it did not write the story, and Global News did not publish it.The purported article is attributed to The Canadian Press, a national news agency that provides content to outlets across the country. But managing editor Sunny Freeman told AFP by email: "It was absolutely not us."The social media posts also make it appear that the article was published by Global News. However, a search for the headline on the broadcaster's website did not produce any results. The article is also absent from a version of Global News' homepage archived shortly after the story was supposedly published on July 18, 2022.
A photo has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook alongside with a false  claim that a 109-year-old Burmese cardiologist who recommends a heart supplement that can "cure hypertension". But the photo actually shows a French-born Russian-American journalist pictured in an interview in 2019. A prominent cardiologist told AFP there was no evidence that the heart supplement cited in the posts has notable benefits. AFP found no evidence that the Burmese cardiologist named in the posts exists.The photo of a bald man sitting at a table was published in a blog post shared here on Facebook on July 16, 2022.The blog post includes an interview with a cardiologist identified as Kyaw Thu Maung. "Age is not a hindrance in life," the Burmese-language title reads. "A 109-year-old cardiologist shared his secret to a healthy and long life."
An image of a liquid bleach bottle has been shared repeatedly in Korean-language posts alongside with a false claim that applying a bleach solution to the feet can cure athlete's foot. However, the claim is not true. Health experts said there is no evidence that bleach can treat fungal infection. They also warned that the liquid could harm the skin and increase the risk of secondary skin infections.The claim was posted here on Facebook on July 13, 2022, alongside a graphic that shows an image of a bottle of Rox, a liquid bleach manufactured by South Korean chemical company Yuhan-Clorox.Athlete's foot is a common fungal infection that usually affects the area between the toes, and is accompanied by symptoms such as itchy white patches, according to the UK's National Health Service. 
A video posted on Facebook claims abortion is "never medically necessary" , This is false.  medical experts say that, in some patients, terminating a pregnancy is the only way to save their life."Abortion is NEVER medically necessary," says the caption of a video that Live Action, an anti-abortion group, posted on June 26, 2022 on Facebook.The post followed the US Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that made abortion a right nationwide. Since then, several states have banned abortion -- and nearly half are expected to do so.The clip shared in the post, which accumulated more than 481,000 views, shows Kendra Kolb, a physician specializing in neonatal and perinatal medicine and pediatrics, saying: "It is often said that abortion is sometimes medically necessary to protect the life or the health of the mother. This is simply not true."
US author Naomi Wolf falsely claims Covid-19 vaccinated mothers caused 'baby die-off'.A video clip of US author Naomi Wolf claiming that "there is a baby die-off" in infants born to Covid-19 vaccinated mothers has been viewed hundreds of times on Facebook. But the claim is false. Doctors' statements contradict Wolf's claims, and multiple studies show that vaccination against Covid-19 during pregnancy is safe.The video featuring US author Naomi Wolf in an episode of War Room Pandemic, a podcast hosted by Steve Bannon  a former White House adviser under ex-president Donald Trump -- was shared on Facebook here on June 1, 2022.The one-minute, 26-second clip has been viewed more than 190 times.Part of the post's Malaysian-language caption repeats Wolf's claims: "- Breastfeeding babies fell sick because of their vaccinated mothers and at least one had died.
A supposed article from The Atlantic, shared thousands of times  in which the fabricated image on social media, describes US President Joe Biden falling off his bike as "heroism."the magazine did not publish such an article or headline, which appears to stem from a political satire website.  Ward's tweet accumulated more than 3,000 likes. An image of the purported article was also shared on Instagram and Facebook.On June 18, Biden took a tumble while cycling near his beach home in Delaware, but he was unhurt. A video from a White House pool report showed the 79-year-old getting up immediately after his fall and saying: "I'm good."While Biden's fall is real, the purported Atlantic article is not.A search on the magazine's website did not lead to any articles that match what is displayed in the social media posts.
WHO dismisses “fake” advisory calling on ban of second-hand clothes to limit monkeypox infections. An advisory on monkeypox purportedly released by the World The claim is false; the letter, which has various errors, was dismissed by the WHO as "fake".This Facebook post, which has since been deleted, shared the letter purportedly signed by a WHO representative to Kenya warning against the shipment of garments and items outside Europe, the USA and Asia so as to limit monkeypox infections.The purported advisory, dated June 8 and published on Facebook two days later, proposed the destruction of donated and relief clothing items sourced from the listed regions within 72 hours.Below the headline was an image of a child covered in lesions as well as a cutout of the purported health advisory.At first glance, the letter contains various mistakes.
Multiple Facebook posts in Thailand have shared a  false  claim that 'paracetamol tablets contain the deadly Machupo virus' spreads online. "How could the Ministry of Public Health and the Food and Drug Administration let this happen?", reads a Thai-language Facebook post shared here on June 11, 2022.However, experts told AFP that the claim is "untrue".The Machupo virus causes the Bolivian haemorrhagic fever that, according to the Pan-American Health Organization, has a mortality rate of between 5 and 30 percent. Experts told AFP that it would be "impossible" for the paracetamol tablets to contain the virus. Thanaporn Chobsri, a pharmacist at Thailand's Government Pharmaceutical Organisation (GPO), agreed and called the claim "fake news".
Malaysian social media users falsely claim 'Bill Gates has prepared billions of monkeypox vaccines'.A video has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook and TikTok alongside a claim that billionaire Bill Gates has "billions of doses of monkeypox vaccine on standby" as more than a thousand infections have emerged worldwide However the video has been shared in a false context. The footage was taken during Gates' visit to a Covid-19 vaccine storage facility in Abu Dhabi in May 2022. His charity, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, has told AFP that the claim is untrue.The video shows American billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates walking through a large warehouse with shelves stacked with crates, as well as imagery of people getting vaccinated.It goes on to suggest that Malaysian religious authorities would issue a fatwa, or a formal Islamic law ruling, and make the vaccine mandatory as it did for Covid-19 vaccines in February 2021.
This video was filmed in Paris it does not show students protesting Covid curbs in Beijing.A video has been viewed and shared with false conetxt that  thousands of times in multiple social media posts alongside the claim it shows a violent police crackdown on students protesting a Covid-19 lockdown at a university in Beijing. While there were reports of student protests against pandemic restrictions in the Chinese capital, the video was shared in a false context. It shows clips of May Day protests that turned violent in Paris.The Twitter post's caption makes a similar claim, likening the video to the Tiananmen crackdown in 1989 when the government set tanks and troops on peaceful protesters.The post circulated after staff members and students at Beijing International Studies University reportedly protested against Covid-19 curbs.
Facebook posts circulating in Thailand with a false claim the World Health Organization approved a dietary supplement to prevent long Covid. However, the WHO said it made no such announcement as of May 30, 2022, while health experts warned the only way to prevent long Covid was to avoid catching the virus in the first place."The World Health Organization has approved protein, resveratrol and probiotics to prevent long Covid-19 symptoms #RenatarHasEverything," reads a Thai-language Facebook post from May 19.The brand's website says its products contain protein, while resveratrol and probiotics are listed as ingredients in its Fiber X digestive detox drink.A spokesperson for Renatar told AFP that the company did not claim its products helped prevent long Covid, while there was no trace of such a claim on its website.
Claims that a planned World Health Organization (WHO) meeting in May 2022 was cancelled after "massive explosions" at Geneva Airport in Switzerland have been shared in several social media posts However, the claim is false. Although flights to and from Geneva were disrupted following a fire next to the airport, the WHO meeting went ahead as scheduled.Text on the screenshot reads: "Preparing for the arrivals of the WHO 'elite' where a Plandemic treaty meeting is being held two massive explosions erupt at the Geneva Airport, Switzerland.Comments on the posts suggest some users believed the WHO meeting had been cancelled. Tedros began his speech by acknowledging "there is no substitute for meeting face-to-face."
Posts shared thousands of times on Facebook claim baby nutrition brands Enfamil and Similac are connecting families who call their US customer service lines to free products however this is false.  the companies are not offering free formula, as supply remains scarce amid a nationwide shortage.The claim gained traction amid nationwide shortages of infant formula. Parents say purchasing restrictions and price gouging have left them increasingly desperate to get their hands on the food required for infants who are not breastfed, a situation that has also sparked a number of inaccurate claims.
Social media posts claim to show an article from the Canadian outlet CTV News, reporting that Ottawa is considering segregating travelers on airplanes by Covid-19 vaccination status which is not true .CTV News said it did not publish such an article, and the Canadian government denied considering such a policy.The article pictured in the social media posts is not authentic. A search for the headline on CTV News's website found no such story.Rob Duffy, CTV News manager of communications at parent company Bell Media, told AFP in an email: "I can confirm that CTV News never published such a story and that the screenshot does not show an authentic article from CTV News."
Social media posts and online documents have made a series of inaccurate claims about the dangers and efficacy of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sometimes asserting the revelations come from leaks of confidential documents from the pharmaceutical company. But health regulators and independent experts say the data -- which is being officially released by the US Food and Drug Administration -- does not show the shot is dangerous or ineffective.Similar misleading claims, often shared with the hashtag #pfizerdocuments, have spread across social media in multiple languages. AFP examines the origin of the documents and the inaccurate claims below.
Images show illicit condom workshops in China and Vietnam, not recycled condoms  in Kenya.Three images showing hundreds of wrapped and unwrapped condoms have been shared on Facebook alongside a claim they show used contraceptives being packaged in Kenya for resale. But the claim is false: the images are several years old and are linked to incidents in China and Vietnam.The post includes images of sacks and boxes, which appear to be full of wrapped and unwrapped condoms. One of the photos shows packages labelled with what looks like the blue-and-white Durex condom brand.Kawangware is an informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya.But the images do not show used condoms being repackaged for resale in Kenya.
Social media posts a misleading documents recently released by Pfizer show that the company's Covid-19 vaccine is unsafe for those who are pregnant or breastfeeding which is totally baseless and fabricated. This is false; health regulators and independent medical experts say no serious safety signals have been identified following vaccination during pregnancy, and the image in the posts does not show guidance from the pharmaceutical giant but is in fact outdated advice published by the United Kingdom in 2020.

Online articles shared hundreds of thousands of times on social media claim the global outbreak of severe hepatitis in children is linked to Covid-19 vaccines, citing an April 2022 study as evidence  but health authorities and independent experts dismissed the idea . the shots are to blame, saying most of those affected were too young to be vaccinated and that the study refers to the case of an adult with a different type of hepatitis.The story cites a case study of a 52-year-old male who developed autoimmune hepatitis following Covid-19 infection and vaccination, then says: "The findings come just days after the World Health Organization issued a 'global alert' about a new form of severe hepatitis affecting children."A severe hepatitis strain of unknown origin has been identified in nearly 230 children in 20 countries, including three in Indonesia who died from the condition.
Posts falsely promise weight loss via magnetic bracelets. Facebook posts claim that wearing a magnetic bracelet will lead to dramatic weight loss But experts dismiss the claim as scientifically unfounded, and consumer advocates warn against purchasing such products.The bracelets are also advertised in Facebook posts claiming they provide a "metabolic boost," while a similar product was pitched in posts, including one claiming to offer "magical relief." The posts are part of a pattern of health misinformation spreading on social media that includes other spurious weight loss claims.But the bracelets are not a simple weight loss cure, according to Donald Hensrud, associate professor of preventive medicine and nutrition at the Mayo Clinic.
Multiple posts on Facebook make a series of claims about the benefits of consuming bananas, including that the fruit can "cure" constipation and migraines. This is misleading; health experts told AFP that the posts overstated the benefits of eating bananas.  The claims were shared in this Thai-language Facebook post on April 9, 2022.The post includes a photo of sundried bananas, a typical snack eaten in Thailand. Kanitha Tananuwong, head of the Department of Food Technology at Chulalongkorn University, told AFP that whether bananas could ease constipation depended on the ripeness of the banana."This claim is misleading -- although bananas can help ease constipation, it is not a magic fruit for curing that," she said. "Bananas have fibre content which helps you to excrete, but it also depends on the ripeness of the banana.






A screenshot of a document has circulated in Facebook posts that claim it shows an application by US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer to remove all its shares from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) after a court ordered the release of its vaccine data however the claim is false.Pfizer was still listed on the NYSE, as of April 22, 2022. The posts actually shared an application to delist a type of debt instrument called notes, which were delisted because they had been paid in full.The post suggests the document is linked to a court decision to order the release of documents about the Food and Drug Administration's licensing of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine.The US government agency was responding to a group of scientists who requested expedited access to an estimated 450,000 pages of vaccine data.Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers, including Pfizer, have been targeted by a wave of misinformation that AFP has debunked.
An online article claims that American special forces arrested top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci on April 9, 2022 on charges of treason, malpractice, conspiracy and homicide however this is false. the Pentagon called it a "total and utter fabrication," the health agency Fauci heads denied the claim, and the scientist has made public appearances after the date of the alleged arrest. "THE FIRST ARREST WILL SHOCK THE WORLD," says an April 11 Facebook post sharing the article link to a group of more than 31,000 members.Real Raw News has previously circulated similar hoaxes debunked by AFP, including that the US military arrested former New York governor Andrew Cuomo and former attorney general Bill Barr.A spokesperson for NIAID said the claim that the US military arrested Fauci was "a fabrication."
An advertisement on Facebook targets diabetes patients by saying they could control their blood sugar by purchasing a magnetic ring  But experts say the product has not been shown to be effective against the disease, nor has it been approved by US regulators.The ad includes a video that claims the ring controls blood sugar through "therapeutic static magnets that stimulate the pancreas," and links to two pages selling the rings for $24.95. In late March, the US House of Representatives passed a bill that would cap the monthly cost of insulin. The Senate is holding its own negotiations on driving down insulin costs. Robert Gabbay, chief scientific and medical officer for the American Diabetes Association, also expressed concern about the ad.In late March, the US House of Representatives passed a bill that would cap the monthly cost of insulin. The Senate is holding its own negotiations on driving down insulin costs. 
Social media posts misleadingly claim that commercial sunscreen products are toxic and carcinogenic and should be avoided But medical experts say sunscreen is one of the best tools to prevent exposure to cancer-causing radiation, and that there is no evidence of significant harm from the products. Concerns over sunscreen became pronounced in 2021 after a recall of several products found to contain benzene, a known carcinogen, although not at levels "expected to cause adverse health consequences, " according to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The use of protective sunscreen is recommended by both the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the FDA, which regulates the products, and which says: "The relationship between skin cancers and overexposure to the sun is well-documented."
Online articles claim that recipients of Covid-19 booster shots will develop acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS,  But medical experts rejected the claim, saying there is no evidence that Covid-19 vaccines can cause the chronic, life-threatening condition. Another article also makes the claim and identifies Eads as "one of America's Frontline Doctors" -- a group notorious for spreading health misinformation. A search of the organization's website did not reveal references to Eads, but it previously made a similar false assertion about the shots causing immune erosion --"Vaccine Acquired Immune Deficiency (VAIDS)."The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved on March 29 a fourth dose of the Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 shots for Americans 50 and older, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says certain immunocompromised individuals may receive a fifth shot.
Social media posts claim that American news channel CNN reported that Russia's invasion of Ukraine is causing cases of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart ,But the posts feature an altered image from a satire website with comments suggesting it was true, and the media company said the apparent newscast is a fake.
One user responded to the tweet asking if it was a joke, and the poster replied: "No they are willing to put anything but the real cause." This is not the first time AFP has found articles from the Bee circulating in posts claiming them to be true.CNN spokesman Jonathan Hawkins also said no such segment aired on the cable network. "Confirming that this is indeed fake," he said.
Videos showing black particles swirling about in a glass of dissolved Nurofen tablets have been shared in a string of social media posts claiming they are graphene oxide. However, the claim is false. The pain relief medication's manufacturer said the particles are black iron oxide, which health authorities and experts say is widely used as a colouring agent in the pharmaceutical industry and is safe for consumption."The black on Nurofen tablets that we think is ink is actually graphene oxide," she says.Graphene is one of the world's strongest and lightest materials, with promising applications for greener energy and nanomedicine.It has been the focus of a wave of disinformation, particularly around Covid-19 vaccines, with conspiracy theorists claiming it is inserted into the jabs to "magnetise" and "control" people.
Online articles and social media posts cite a scientific paper to claim that pharmaceutical giant and Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna created the virus that causes the disease. But the lead author of the study said its findings do not implicate the company, and independent experts say the report itself lacks merit. The Expose published a similar article with the claim on March 3, 2022, and more examples of the claim appeared on Twitter and Facebook. The Expose published a similar article with the claim on March 3, 2022, and more examples of the claim appeared on Twitter and Facebook.The Expose article claims that because the study shows a 19-nucleotide portion of the SARS-CoV-2 genome is a complementary match to a sequence patented by Moderna in 2017, two years before the pandemic began, the company must have created the virus which has now claimed more than six million lives globally.
As South Korea recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases fuelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, a video circulated alongside a Korean-language claim that it shows a triple-jabbed doctor collapsing while performing surgery in Australia. However, the video -- which has been viewed hundreds of times -- has been shared in a false context. It has previously circulated in news reports about an incident in China since January 2020, when Covid-19 vaccines were not yet available.The 10-second video shows what appears to be a surgeon collapsing in an operating theatre. South Korea has been battling an Omicron-fuelled wave of Covid-19 infections, with record numbers of infections recorded. Despite the surge, death rates have remained relatively low in the country, where the vast majority of the country's eligible population has been fully vaccinated and boosted.However, false claims about the safety of Covid-19 vaccines have frequently been circulated in the country. 
As Australian health authorities battled to control an unprecedented spread of the mosquito-borne Japanese encephalitis virus, social media posts falsely claimed the potentially deadly virus was an adverse effect of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine. But the posts -- shared hundreds of times -- are false. Health experts told AFP there is no link between encephalitis -- an inflammation of the brain -- and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. The posts misrepresented a document that Pfizer submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).A similar claim that the disease is linked to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was also shared hundreds of times on Instagram.A spokesperson for Australia's Department of Health told AFP there was no established link between Japanese encephalitis and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.The spokesperson added each case of Japanese encephalitis infection is confirmed by testing to eliminate other causes.
Korean-language social media posts have shared multiple misleading claims about a Covid-19 vaccine made by US pharma giant Novavax after South Korea's regulators approved the jab for use in January 2022. The posts suggest the Nuvaxovid jab is not safe for humans because it "contains moth and spider DNA", and claim more than 200 "cases of serious side effects" from the vaccine have been reported. These claims are misleading: as of March 11, 2022 Nuvaxovid has been approved as safe to use by health authorities in dozens of countries including South Korea. Experts told AFP the vaccine does not contain animal DNA. In the same month, the European Commission authorised the vaccine in the EU for people 18 and over. The post circulated online days after South Korea began administering Nuvaxovid vaccines, having approved the jab on January 12, 2022.But the claims are misleading.
Two photos are circulating on social media alongside a claim they show Indonesian inventors winning awards for a "natural body-whitening formula". The claim is false; one photo shows a valedictorian at a university graduation ceremony in 2020, while the other photo shows an aesthetic dermatologist receiving an award in 2021 for her services during the pandemic.The first photo, which shows a young woman wearing a black graduation cap and gown, was shared here on Instagram on February 16, 2022, garnering more than 870 likes. However, the claims are false. Neither photo shows women winning an award for creating a "natural body-whitening formula". A Google reverse image search found the first photo in an article from November 7, 2020, by Indonesian state-run news agency Antara.





Facebook posts have circulated in Sri Lanka claiming anyone living in the island nation who has received a Covid-19 booster jab will be exempted from a law enacted in 2020 that made mask-wearing mandatory in public places. The posts are misleading; as of March 2, 2022, Sri Lanka does not have mask exemptions for vaccinated people, including those who have received a booster jab. The claim was shared in this post on Facebook on February 21, 2022. The Sinhala-language text superimposed on the image repeats the claim. The island nation has recorded more than 646,000 Covid-19 cases as of March 2, 2022 and has seen a spike in new infections since January 2022 following the spread of the Omicron variant. As of March 2, 2022 about 30 percent of Sri Lanka's population was vaccinated with three doses of a Covid-19 vaccine.
Social media posts and e-commerce sites advertise the topical use of ginger oil for body slimming through "belly drainage", But medical experts say there is no scientific evidence to support the claim and that promoting this kind of quick fix can distract from serious weight loss efforts. A similar claim appeared on Facebook here, featuring a video with alleged before and after footage of users of the product. And a post on Instagram claimed that applying the oil to the belly button would promote "fast fat burning and eliminate cellulite cell 10 times more effective than applying on skin." The claims are not backed by any clinical randomized trials, and delivery through the navel is unlikely to have any systemic impact, William Dietz, a professor and director of the George Washington University center for prevention and wellness, who is co-chair of the Lancet Commission on Obesity, told AFP. Donna Ryan, a researcher on obesity and professor emerita at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center at Louisiana State University, said there is "nothing in the scientific literature" to support the claim that it can eliminate cellulite, or subcutaneous fat that creates dimples under the skin.  
Social media posts and online articles claim Canada's capital ottawa authorized the euthanasia of pets owned by protesters arrested and jaiked for participating in a weeks-long anti-vaccine mandate demonstration however  This is false. a longstanding city law allows authorities to recover pets when owners cannot look after them, they become eligible for adoption after eight days, and the clearing of the Ottawa protest did not lead to animals being put down. The claims were sparked by a February 17 tweet from the Ottawa By-law and Regulatory Services, a municipal law enforcement agency independent of city police, which oversees animal care and control in the city.If you are unable to care for your animal as a result of enforcement actions, your animal will placed into protective care for 8 days, at your cost. After 8 days, if arrangements are not made, your animal will be considered relinquished.
Image of Facebook login page requiring vaccination ID is fake . The posts have circulated since the tech giant announced it was changing its name to Meta in October 2021. This is false; AFP confirmed that as of the date of this publication, the image does not show a real Facebook login screen. A spokesperson for Meta, the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, said the image is fake.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced in October 2021 that the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp would change its name to Meta.As of the date of this publication, AFP Fact Check confirmed that Facebook's homepage does not request any vaccination status or identification to log in.A quote tweet from the same account that Stone replied to and a reply to the deleted tweet indicate that the spokesman commented on the false login image.
Multiple social media posts shared in February 2022 falsely claim the Australian government has only recorded 83 deaths from Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic. The country has endured nearly two years of some of the toughest coronavirus restrictions in the world. But the posts are false; Australia has recorded 2,556 Covid deaths as of February 23, 2022.The tweet includes a screenshot that appears to have been captured from a television broadcast.The screengrab was taken from a February 15, 2022 episode of Paul Murray Live on Sky News Australia.Audio from the programme can be heard here at the 57-minute 23-second mark, when he discussed an Australian Bureau of Statistics data update on Covid-19 deaths published on February 15, 2022.
This photo shows Glastonbury music festival in 2019, not a protest in Australia in 2022. As thousands marched through Australia's capital Canberra to decry Covid-19 vaccine mandates, Facebook post shared a photo purportedly showing huge crowds gathered for the "freedom convoy". They claimed that more than 1.5 million cars showed up for the protest. In reality, the image shows an aerial view of Britain's Glastonbury music festival in 2019. Police estimated up to 10,000 attended the demonstration in Canberra.Thousands marched through Canberra to decry vaccine mandates on February 12, the latest in a string of rallies against pandemic restrictions around the world.However, the photo shows a music festival in Britain, not a protest in Australia.
As New Zealand faced a surge in Covid-19 infections, social media posts claimed the government planned to add vaccines to the water supply in a bid to increase inoculation rates. The posts purported to show a report from a popular newspaper announcing the plan. However, the purported report is fabricated, the newspaper and the health ministry told AFP. A health expert said the idea of adding vaccines to the water supply was "simply ridiculous". The post appears to show a screenshot of an article by The New Zealand Herald with the headline "Leaked emails expose Governments sic'underhanded' vaccine plan".The screenshot circulated in similar social media posts around the world, including New Zealand, Australia, Spain and the Philippines.However, the claim is false.
A video of an Indonesian podcaster who has organised anti-vaccine rallies claiming the Covid-19 pandemic is caused by air pollution has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in multiple social media posts However, the claim is false. although the Indonesian government has come under fire from residents for toxic levels of air pollution in the capital Jakarta, health experts told AFP Covid-19 is a disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The footage, which has been viewed more than 18,000 times, shows Indonesian podcaster Ali Ridho Assegaf, popularly known as Babeh Aldo, who has staged anti-vaccine protests in Jakarta. The number of Covid-19 cases in Indonesia has been increasing in the past weeks as the country is recording a surge of Omicron cases.
Social media posts claim Thailand has the "highest number of cancer patients in the world" because the kingdom's citizens use ice cubes that contain the chemical formalin, and they consume chlorinated water. But Thai health experts rubbished the claim, saying there was no evidence that formalin was being added to ice cubes, or that the controlled amount of chlorine used to disinfect tap water can cause cancer. Thailand also does not have the highest number of cancer patients in the world, according to data collected by the World Health Organization (WHO).  It also claims "foreigners in Phuket don't eat ice cubes because they know about this". Formalin is the liquid form of formaldehyde, which is a strong-smelling, colourless gas. It is used as an industrial disinfectant and as a preservative in funeral parlours and medical labs, and also in some foods and medicines.
Social media posts and online videos claim a judge ordered Ottawa police to return fuel to anti-vaccine mandate protesters after seizing supplies from the demonstrators but this is false the Ontario Ministry of the Attorney General says no such order exists, and the police say they did not return any fuel. Similar claims have been shared thousands of times on Twitter and Facebook and have also appeared in online articles.The claims spread as truckers led a protest in Ottawa against Covid-19 vaccine mandates that took effect on January 15 in Canada and on January 22 in the United States for drivers crossing the border. The protest was initially downplayed by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as a "fringe minority," but has mushroomed, inspired demonstrations around the world, and drawn significant financial support. Big rigs have caused significant economic disruption by shutting down the Ambassador Bridge, stifling a key border crossing for US-Canada trade.
Online articles and social media posts say the US government will provide crack pipes to drug addicts  but both the Department of Health and Human Services and the White House say the government is not providing funding for pipes. The claim stems from a reference to "safe smoking kits" in a document on grants to reduce harm from drug abuse, but both the Department of Health and Human Services and the White House say the government is not providing funding for pipes.  The claim was then picked up by other outlets, and also spread via posts on social media, some of which sought to link the alleged pipe distribution effort to Hunter Biden's history of drug use.But government officials rejected the idea that federal money would go to pipes."No federal funding will be used directly or through subsequent reimbursement of grantees to put pipes in safe smoking kits," HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and Office of National Drug Control Policy Director Rahul Gupta said in a statement.
The viral photos of Malaysia's health minister were taken at two different Covid-19 vaccine events.The posts point to the fact he appears to be wearing the same outfit in both photos. The claim is false; while Khairy Jamaluddin wore the same black t-shirt and trousers to both his Covid-19 vaccinations in March and April 2021, he sported different shoes and socks.It shows two photos of Khairy wearing a black t-shirt. In the first picture, he holds a placard that reads: "I have been vaccinated" while in the second picture, his placard reads: "I completed two doses". Khairy, who was then chief of Malaysia's Covid-19 vaccination programme, became the first person in the country to receive a Covid-19 Sinovac vaccine on March 18, 2021.
Photos show Indonesian leader attending Chinese Lunar New Year event before pandemic. Three photos have been shared thousands of times in social media posts that claim Indonesian President Joko Widodo was pictured maskless at an event to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year in 2022. The posts claim the president ignored "health protocols". The photos were shared in a false context: they were taken in January 2020, more than one month before Indonesia reported its first Covid-19 cases.The photos were posted on Twitter on February 1, 2022 and have been retweeted more than 1,800 times. The post circulated on the first day of Lunar New Year in 2022, after Indonesia's Religious Affairs Minister Yaqut Cholil Qoumas urged communities celebrating the festival to observe pandemic restrictions as Covid-19 cases surged.The post goes on to mention the upcoming fasting month of Ramadan and subsequent celebrations for Eid al-Fitr, which will fall in May this year.
Multiple Facebook posts in Thailand shared thousands of times claim that soaking fruit and vegetables in water with charcoal can help remove toxins This is misleading: Thai health authorities said it did not recommend the proposed washing method as there was "no guarantee" it could remove all unwanted toxins. A Thai health expert separately told AFP that the technique was "not recommended" as it may not remove all toxins.The post features an image that shows charcoal sticks and grapes in a silver bowl filled with water. It has been shared more than 11,000 times.Charcoal is a form of carbon, generally used for heating and cooking. Somsak Siriwanarungsan, director of the health department's Bureau of Food and Water Sanitation, said that the claim was misleading."We do not recommend this method," Somsak said. "There is no scientific evidence that activated carbon is recommended for cleaning fruits and vegetables."
Facebook posts falsely tout grape seeds as proven cancer cure. Social media posts claim that consuming grape seeds or grapeseed oil can cure cancer. But cancer specialists say supplements from the fruit are still being studied and there is not enough scientific evidence to support the claim, while US health regulators warn against purported cancer cures promoted on social media. Alternative cures, unusual medications and even hazardous treatment advice for disease are often touted online, and cancer is no exception. AFP has previously debunked claims that some foods -- including lemon water, apricot seeds, hot pineapple water and dandelion root extract -- are effective cancer cures.  The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), warns consumers to "beware of products claiming to cure cancer on websites or social media platforms, such as Facebook and Instagram."
Online ads presented as articles claim that two celebrity doctors launched a line of cannabidiol gummies however This is false; a spokesperson for one of the doctors said the claim is inaccurate, and both have previously rejected the idea that they were involved with such a product. Other similar ads are circulating online, featuring claims including that the CBD line allegedly released by Phil McGraw, known to his fans as Dr Phil, was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and that it can instantly reverse dementia and memory loss. But both TV doctors have addressed the claims before, including in a 2021 episode of Dr Oz and a joint interview with TMZ in which McGraw described the ads as "clickbait" to get people to sign up for "bogus products."
Social media posts claim radiation from 5G technology makes people sick with flu-like symptoms. But US health authorities and independent experts say there is no evidence that wireless communication systems are harmful to humans.The posts come as telecommunications companies roll out fifth-generation wireless technology across the United States and as the country contends with Covid-19. 5G, the next generation of super-fast mobile network technology that will power self-driving cars, smart-home technology, streaming and other services, uses higher-frequency waves than previous generations. "To date, there is no consistent or credible scientific evidence of health problems caused by the exposure to radio frequency energy emitted by cell phones," the US Food and Drug Administration says on a webpage titled "Scientific Evidence for Cell Phone Safety."
social media posts purported to share a poster issued by Britain's National Health Service (NHS) warning that the vaccines "cause Bell's palsy" which is totally baseless and false. Britain's health department and local authorities in the town where the poster was displayed said it was not made by the NHS. Bell's palsy, a condition that causes temporary facial drooping, is a rare side effect of Covid-19 vaccines. "What the hell is going on. They are posting this on billboards. I have personally seen at least a dozen people with Bell’s palsy in the last year," reads a Facebook post shared on January 17, 2022.Bell's palsy is a temporary weakness or lack of movement affecting one side of the face, according to the NHS website.
A video featuring the founder of a far-right US-based website claims scientists can now genetically modify crops in order "to cause infertility in black people" by using a specific type of technology however This is misleading. experts told AFP the video misrepresents a natural process that has evolved in plants as a defence against viruses, which they said is not harmful to humans. The man narrating the misleading clip is Mike Adams, founder of the US-based website Natural News. He has previously been flagged for sharing misinformation here by US-based fact-check site PolitiFact "Food crops can be engineered right now based on existing technology to cause infertility in black people alone. That technology is a reality."The claim, however, is misleading.
Facebook posts circulating in Pakistan claim the country's top body overseeing its pandemic response tweeted that "all primary schools" would be closed in January 2022 to curb the spread of coronavirus. This is misleading. Pakistan's National Command and Control Center (NCOC) said the posts shared a screenshot of a tweet from an imposter account. Although Pakistani authorities ordered some schools to close temporarily in January after Covid-19 outbreaks were detected, there has been no national closure of primary schools as of January 28, 2022.  On January 21, the NCOC said it had ordered the closure of educational institutions where Covid-19 outbreaks had been recorded, as the country faced a rising number of Omicron infections.The post shared a screenshot of a tweet from Twitter user @OfficialNcocMtg that repeats the claim in the caption.It also features an image of some masked men in a meeting.





Social media posts claim traffic cameras on an Ontario highway were disabled to hide the passage of a convoy heading to Canada's capital to protest Covid-19 vaccine mandates for truckers. But the city of Windsor and Ontario's Ministry of Transportation both denied the claims, and supporters of the protest could be seen on footage from traffic cameras as the convoy passed through the Greater Toronto Area. "When they start turning off traffic cameras to avoid showing the convoy. The narrative runs deep my friends," says a January 24, 2021 Facebook post shared more than 1,200 times. The post includes screenshots of malfunctioning live-feed videos from highway traffic cameras in Windsor, Ontario.Other posts share the same claim with slightly different images.The Canadian Trucking Alliance said that "the vast majority of the Canadian trucking industry is vaccinated," but the mandate has raised fears of further disruption of supply chains already strained by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Social media posts misleading claim that a convoy heading to Canada's capital to protest Covid-19 vaccine mandates for truckers set a Guinness World Record for being the longest  which is totally false . the global authority on record-breaking said the honor is held by a parade that took place in Egypt in 2020, and specific conditions have to be met for an official record attempt to be registered by Guinness.Similar posts making the claim can be found on Facebook and Twitter.On January 23, 2022, local media reported that hundreds of truckers left the westernmost Canadian province of British Columbia, heading eastward to Ottawa in order to protest a Covid-19 vaccine mandate for cross-border truckers that entered into force on January 15, 2022.The Canadian Trucking Alliance said that "the vast majority of the Canadian trucking industry is vaccinated," but the mandate has raised fears of further disruption of supply chains already strained by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Online articles falsely claim a young child was arrested at the Natural History Museum in New York City for refusing to show proof of vaccination which is not true. the New York Police Department (NYPD) and the museum say the girl was brought by adults protesting the city's vaccination requirement, and that she was escorted from the building while the others were arrested for refusing to leave at closing time. "NYPD Arrest 9-year-old girl for not showing vax papers at museum," said the fake headline of a January 22, 2022 article by "The Liberty Loft" website, which  issued a correction after the publication of AFP's fact check. New York City requires proof of vaccination for indoor dining, fitness centers, and venues including museums. Such mandates are a divisive issue and have sparked protests in the city and elsewhere in the United States.However, the girl referred to in the articles was not arrested, and police were not called because the group failed to show proof of vaccination.
Facebook posts claim pneumonia caused by Covid-19 is an allergic reaction that should be treated with antihistamines But experts dismissed the claim, saying pneumonia associated with the disease is not related to allergies, and that antihistamines have not been proven to be beneficial in treating Covid-19.The post attributes the information to a South African doctor, and urges readers to "add antihistamines to your C protocol!"Peter Chin-Hong, an infectious disease physician at the University of California, San Francisco said the claim is "completely false. There's no basis to it.""It's not an allergic reaction," he said, and there have not been large, randomized clinical trials that have shown antihistamines to be beneficial against Covid-19.Chin-Hong discouraged people from taking antihistamines to treat Covid-19 at home, possibly delaying a hospital visit. "It's dangerous when people think they can treat it, because time is money with disease," he said.
Posts on social media make a series of claims about the benefits of eating certain fruits and vegetables, including that three carrots This is misleading; experts say the posts contain multiple inaccuracies, and make broad generalizations about the foods that do not apply to everyone. "Carrots are nutrient-dense, providing an excellent source of beta carotene and can be included in a healthy eating pattern," but "three carrots isn't enough nutrients needed to walk three miles. Three carrots only provide 75 total calories, while it takes roughly 200-350 calories to walk three miles," said Roxana Ehsani, a dietitian and spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics."Every person has very unique and personalized needs, which need to be taken into account when determining a person's daily caloric needs and when calculating their energy expenditure," she added.
Video does not show 'tennis player collapsing at Australian Open after vaccination'.  The video circulated online after defending men's champion Novak Djokovic lost a court bid to stay in Australia for the tournament without being vaccinated against Covid. But the video has been shared in a false context; it has circulated in reports before the pandemic about Jakupovic suffering breathing difficulties at the tournament in January 2020 as smoke from surrounding bushfires blanketed Melbourne. It shows Slovenian tennis player Dalila Jakupovic sitting with her head in her hands on a tennis court.It reads: "MEANWHILE AT THE AUSTRALIAN OPEN, PROOF VAXXED TENNIS PLAYERS ARE DROPPING LIKE FLIES.The post circulated online after defending men's champion Novak Djokovic was deported following a failed court bid to stay and play in Melbourne without being vaccinated.
Social media posts  misleadingly claim that unvaccinated individuals will be barred from voting in person in the June 2022 Ontario provincial election which is totally baseless and fabricated. But Elections Ontario says the Covid-19 policy shown in the posts only applies to individuals who work or conduct business in its offices, not to voters.More than 82 percent of people in Ontario, the most populous province in Canada, have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Proof of vaccination is currently required to enter certain facilities, including outdoor areas that have a normal capacity of 20,000 or more people.But Elections Ontario the non-partisan office of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario says the claim that unvaccinated voters will be barred from the polls is false.
A post shared on Facebook in South Africa claims Italian doctors discovered that Covid-19 is not caused by a virus but a bacterium which is false . The post also claims that the World Health Organization (WHO) has banned autopsies on people who die from Covid-19 and that the disease is exacerbated by 5G technology and can be cured by taking aspirin. But Italy’s health ministry previously told AFP Fact Check this is a “hoax” and available health research confirms the claims are false. A section of the post, written in Afrikaans, translates to: “Italy became the first country in the world to perform an autopsy on a corpse that had died from Covid-19.” The post adds that Italian doctors defied orders from the WHO and autopsied patients who had died from Covid-19. This is how they supposedly found that “a bacterium” causes the disease.
Social media posts claim that root canal treatment is dangerous to the immune system. This is false; dental experts say the procedure  which leaves a treated tooth in place, allowing a patient to maintain their natural smile and avoid costly implants  is not linked to systemic disease, and can eliminate the cause of pain or swelling in the mouth. The image is sourced to the Instagram account @PlantRomance, based in Winnipeg, Canada.  A root canal treatment involves the removal of infected or injured tissue from inside a tooth. The procedure is often recommended to treat a deep cavity or a cracked, fractured or damaged tooth. Garry Myers, director of the advanced education program in endodontics at Virginia Commonwealth University, said the posts incorrectly refer to the tooth treated with a root canal as dead tissue. 
Social media posts misleadigly claim to show a public health poster from the 1918 Spanish Flu pandemic that echoes Covid-19 safety guidelines wear a mask, wash hands, keep a "safe distance" from others But the image text has been altered and is fake. The original version was used in a 1919 Red Cross Christmas campaign to fight tuberculosis, and it did not contain such instructions. The image on the poster shows three people, one a child, huddled together beneath a Christmas wreath as a man strains against a door to keep out a ghoulish white spirit. The words "the next to go" appear in red at the top.The posts come as the United States is experiencing "almost a vertical increase" in Covid-19 cases as the highly contagious Omicron variant sweeps the country following the holiday season.Wearing a face mask, social distancing, and frequent hand washing are all measures recommended by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to stop the spread of coronavirus.A Google reverse image search yielded the same illustration as the social media posts, but with a different message.
Social media posts circulating in Indonesia claim that eating fruit on an empty stomach will "cure cancer" but experts told AFP there is no scientific evidence to support the claim.. The claim has circulated online in the Southeast Asian nation since at least 2013. It also recently recirculated in French-speaking African countries.  "Cancer patients should not die. Anti-cancer therapy has been found, namely eating fruit on an empty stomach or when one gets very hungry. The post does not specify which type of cancer the purported doctor  "Dr Stephen Mak" was referring to. AFP is also not able to verify his identity. Alternative "cures", unusual medications and hazardous treatment advice for the disease are often touted online worldwide.  
Mileading Posts circulating in Sri Lanka claim two local experts gave conflicting remarks about the need for people to be vaccinated against the Omicron coronavirus variant which is not true. The posts which shared two screenshots of local media reports  circulated online as the island nation reported its first case of Omicron. AFP found that the original comments from one of the experts were misrepresented.The claim was shared on Facebook on December 3, 2021. The post included a collage of two Sinhala-language newspaper clippings. The top image shows a report that quotes Dr Chandima Jeewandara, a professor at University of Sri Jayewardenepura. The image at the bottom features a clipping with purported remarks by Dr Padma Gunaratne, president of the Sri Lanka Medical Association.  The post's caption translates as: "Now what is correct? What is wrong? Can you see the contradiction. 
A screenshot of a news report has been shared multiple times on Facebook alongside a claim that proof of Covid-19 vaccination will be required for South Koreans voting in the country's upcoming presidential election in March 2022 however, is misleading. a spokesperson for South Korea's national election commission told AFP the claim is "baseless", while confirming unvaccinated people will be allowed to vote in the upcoming presidential election. The screenshot shared in the misleading posts was taken from a Korean news report that fact-checked a similar claim circulating online. The claim was shared on Facebook on December 12, 2021."This not a light matter. The Democratic Party has calculated this. Scary leftist bastards."South Korea is due to hold a presidential election on March 9, 2022. All South Korean citizens above the age of 19 are eligible to cast a vote. 
Online articles and social media posts claim that Covid-19 shots compromise the immune systems of recipients, causing "vaccine acquired immune deficiency syndrome" however this is false; medical experts say the vaccines do not have this effect. The claim -- part of a flood of false or misleading information about vaccines and Covid-19 -- also appeared in other articles, as well as in posts on Twitter and Facebook. The article on the America's Frontline Doctors website cites a study in medical journal The Lancet that found protection from Covid-19 vaccines declines over time. The research has not yet been formally reviewed by other scientists. But the article uses the study's findings to claim that "doctors are calling this phenomena in the repeatedly vaccinated 'immune erosion' or 'acquired immune deficiency', accounting for elevated incidence of myocarditis and other post-vaccine illnesses that either affect them more rapidly, resulting in death, or more slowly, resulting in chronic illness."
Online articles claim the US FEMA took advantage of tornadoes that devastated parts of western Kentucky to require Covid-19 vaccination in exchange for relief however this is false .  the federal agency says its efforts  which include search and rescue as well as distribution of supplies are not predicated on vaccination, and a local official confirmed FEMA's role. The article, which was also published on another website and spread on social media, came just days after tornados ripped through western Kentucky and other US states, leaving dozens of people dead and thousands homeless. FEMA has helped survivors apply for federal assistance, and has also distributed water, meals, cots and generators, she said.
Posts shared on social media in the United States and South Africa claim that the World Economic Forum (WEF) made reference to the newly discovered Omicron variant in a report dated July 2021 but this is false. the original WEF article cited on social media made no mention of Omicron, and it was only updated in November 2021 with details about the latest variant.The post was published on Twitter on November 27, 2021, and has since been retweeted more than 4,000 times.The Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant, also known as B.1.1.529, was reported to the WHO on November 24, 2021. Its discovery was first announced by researchers in South Africa after the country’s Network for Genomics Surveillance detected the variant two days earlier. There are currently five Covid-19 variants, namely: Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and, now, Omicron.
Health authority dismisses claim Canadian child died after Covid-19 vaccination.Social media posts claim a six-year-old child died near Ottawa, Canada after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine. But the local health authority said a review of data from coroners as well as partners at a children's hospital showed the claim is false, and monitoring systems are in place to investigate potential adverse events following vaccination. The same claim -- which circulated as Ontario expanded its vaccination campaign after the Canadian government authorized use of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 shot for children aged five to 11 -- also appeared elsewhere on Facebook and on Twitter. But Ottawa Public Health, the local health authority, called the claim "misinformation" in a tweet that said reports of the death of a child were "false."Ottawa Public Health linked to a page about vaccine safety on Public Health Ontario's website, which emphasizes that monitoring systems are in place to detect potential adverse events following vaccination, both in adults and children.
A video has been shared multiple times on social media in South Korea alongside a claim it shows a protest against Covid-19 restrictions in Austria however the claim is false. The video was first posted online in November 2019, at least one month before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. It shows football fans marching along a street ahead of a Europa League match in Austria.The video was shared on Facebook on November 18, 2021. Through a reverse image search on Google using screenshots from the video, AFP found the same footage was posted here on November 29, 2019, on YouTube.According to the description on YouTube, the footage shows fans of German football team Borussia Mönchengladbach marching through the Austrian city of Graz.
Social media posts have shared a photo purporting to show a mass demonstration against Covid-19 restrictions in the Austrian capital Vienna in November 2021. The claim is false; the image was taken in Moscow in 1991, during a protest against then Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev.The picture surfaced online as thousands rallied against new Covid-19 restrictions on November 20 in Vienna. The Alpine nation returned to lockdown on November 22, shutting shops, restaurants and festive markets as a fresh wave crashed into Europe. The country also said it would impose a vaccine mandate from February 2022.However, the photo circulating online was not taken in Austria. A Google reverse image search found that the photo in the archives of AP news agency, alongside the title: "Russia Unrest 1991".
Multiple Facebook and Twitter posts in Indonesia claim that Sinovac Covid-19 vaccines distributed in the country's inoculation drive are unsafe as they are marked "for clinical trial" only however the claim is false. the posts show a photo of the Sinovac vaccine packaging from August 2020, when the vaccine was not yet available to the public. "HAVE YOU BEEN VACCINATED?" reads this Indonesian-language Facebook post from July 4, 2021. Indonesia's Covid-19 vaccination drive kicked off on January 13, 2021, using the CoronaVac vaccine, produced by Chinese biopharmaceutical firm Sinovac Biotech, after it was approved for emergency use.A reverse image search on Google, followed by keyword searches, found the photo was taken by the Associated Press (AP) news agency in Brazil on August 5, 2020.
A misleading  article circulating on Facebook claims Covid-19 vaccines have killed more people in Australia in 2021 than the disease itself, citing figures from the national drug regulator  which is not true.  The regulator's database shows adverse reactions reported following vaccination but does not mean they were caused by the jab. There have been significantly fewer confirmed deaths from Covid-19 vaccination than from Covid-19 in Australia in 2021. The article claims: "Official data made public by the Australian Government shows that by mid October 2021, Australia had officially suffered more deaths due to the Covid-19 vaccines than the disease they were supposed to be protecting against."
An online article said Myriam Bourla, wife of Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla, died of complications arising from a Covid-19 vaccine however the claim is false. the pharmaceutical company and the hospital mentioned in the article told AFP, and Myriam Bourla attended a public event after the article erroneously announced her death. The Conservative Beaver did not respond to an AFP enquiry about the claim, sent by email on November 17. The article was not accessible the following day having been removed from the website. But screenshots of it can still be found on Facebook.
Online articles and social media posts say Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman of the World Economic Forum (WEF), has been arrested however the claim is false, confirmed Swiss police. Europol and WEF; Schwab was not detained and in fact spoke at an event in Dubai on the day cited in the erroneous posts. The article claims the arrest was made at the request of the European Police Office (Europol), describing Schwab as one of the "engineers" of the Covid-19 pandemic.Schwab founded the WEF in 1971. It hosts forums for the world's economic, political and business leaders, most notably a large annual gathering at Davos, a town in the Swiss Alps. The false claim of Bourla's death follows a wave of disinformation targeting the pharmaceutical company which has developed one of the main Covid-19 vaccines.
Misleading Facebook posts claim that a proposed bill to amend Australia's biosecurity law targets unvaccinated citizens with forced quarantine and Covid-19 vaccination which is not true. The text of the bill indicates that the amendments would apply to people arriving in Australia from overseas and states that "force must not be used" to require individuals to comply with biosecurity measures. The claim was shared on Facebook on October 18.The post links to a petition called, 'REJECT Biosecurity Ammendment Bill 2021', which has attracted more than 150,000 signatures.The Biosecurity Amendment Bill 2021 aims to strengthen regulations for international arrivals to Australia to reduce the risk of bringing diseases such as Covid-19 into the country, as detailed in this 'Explanatory Memorandum' about the bill.
Multiple social media posts have circulated in Thailand claiming "jumping high for about 15 to 20 times" cures difficulties in urinating for elderly adults however experts said no evidence of it is found. Health experts told AFP the purported remedy is "100 percent wrong" and "extremely dangerous" as it could lead to injuries in elderly people. The post tells the story of a 70-year-old doctor with difficulties in urinating. The doctor purportedly met an old colleague who recommended the remedy to him."Stand up, jump high as if you were picking mangoes from a mango tree. Jump for about 15-20 times", the post states."He was able to treat the problems with an easy solution without even having to go to the hospital and torment himself with a catheter injection, or medications."
Facebook posts feature a photo of a sign at a Covid-19 vaccination stand that urges people to remember to donate their children's organs, suggesting that the shots will kill them But the image has been manipulated. the original banner advertised vaccinations in English and Spanish, with no mention of organ donation. The same image part of a series of false claims about Covid-19 vaccines circulating online as US authorities push for people to take the shots  was also shared on Facebook. The US Food and Drug Administration authorized the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 5-11 in late October. The shot was then endorsed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), clearing the way for the vaccination of up to 28 million children.
Social media posts in Thailand claim the World Health Organization (WHO) selected papaya as "the most nutritious fruit" for the second year running which is misleading.  the WHO said that while it encouraged the consumption of fruit and vegetables, it did not recommended papaya in particular.
The post goes on to claim that papaya contains more nutrients than other fruits  including twice as much calcium as apples, 16 times more vitamin A than pineapples and five times more potassium than bananas purportedly referencing data from the US Department of Agriculture (USDA).The post links to a YouTube video from Thai public broadcaster PBS featuring a discussion about the exotic fruit, including its health benefits, origins and tips on selecting a good papaya.
Social media posts and an online article say pharmaceutical giant New Pfizer added an ingredient used to stabilize heart attack victims to its Covid-19 vaccine for children however , this is misleading. Pfizer's new formula containing tromethamine will be used for both children and adults, and the ingredient's purpose is to ease and prolong vaccine storage, the company and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) say. The article, complete with the photo of a crying child being given a shot, says there is a "disturbing nugget" that is "buried on Page 14" of a briefing document sent to the FDA -- the inclusion of tromethamine, described as "a blood acid reducer which is used to stabilize people with heart attacks."The claim circulated online around the time that the FDA authorized Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 5-11. The shot was then endorsed by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), clearing the way for the vaccination of up to 28 million children.
The viral photo shows a music festival in Switzerland in 2018 not Anti vaccine protest in italy. Korean-language text next to the photo reads: "Regardless of whether we get the vaccine or not, government stay out of it, Italy says".Opposition against the pass  which some criticise as an attack on individual liberty  intensified when the government toughened rules on October 15 to make it a requirement to access all workplaces.However, the claim is false.A reverse image search on Google found the photo was taken in Switzerland, not Italy.The photo corresponds to this bridge in Zurich shown in Google Maps. AFP has previously debunked false posts that misrepresented the photo as a Donald Trump rally in the United States and a demonstration against coronavirus restrictions in Germany.
A video and several photos have been shared repeatedly in social media posts that claim they show robots designed to forcibly administer vaccines to humans but the video and images have been shared in a false context. The footage was previously shared online by a digital effects artist, while the photos have circulated in posts unrelated to vaccines.The post shared a video that appears to show a robot injecting a vaccine into a person at his residence.It also shares a collage of robot photos and a screenshot of an article about robots being armed for military use.But the video and photos have been shared a false context.
A photo of a man with a bloodied face is circulating in Facebook posts that falsely claim  a man called Kyle Mitchell who "died after being hit by rubber bullets" at an anti-lockdown protest in Melbourne, Australia. The claim is false; police said they recorded no such death, while Mitchell told AFP the footage showed him injured after a fight with a store clerk.Police in Australia's second-largest city used pepper spray, foam baton rounds and rubber ball grenades to disperse a violent protest on September 21 against Covid-19 vaccines and lockdown restrictions.However, the claim is false.
A meme shared on Facebook claims that the former leaders of Haiti, Tanzania, Burundi, eSwatini and Ivory Coast were assassinated because they opposed Covid-19 vaccines But the claim is false as there is no evidence to suggest that the five politicians were killed for refusing vaccines. The meme was posted on Facebook in Tanzania on October 20, 2021. It shows five separate panels, each one featuring the character Jim Halpert from the US sitcom The Office, as well as the details and images of the deceased leaders, and the names of their countries on a whiteboard. AFP Fact Check debunked a similar meme containing three of the five leaders in July 2021. Thereafter, it changed to incorporate all five, like this Facebook post from the same month with more than 1,000 shares.
Social media posts claim that Amazon sprays its shipping boxes with "toxic pesticides to kill warehouse rodents"but the claim, which has circulated for months, has been dismissed by the retail giant, a box manufacturing association and a veterinary association.  But this claim, which was examined by the fact-checking website Snopes during the 2020 holiday season and can be traced to a post by a New York-based cat rescue group that is no longer available, is false.Alisa Carrol, a spokeswoman for Amazon, confirmed to AFP that its "boxes aren't sprayed for any reason."Corrugated boxes employ a multi-layered structure and are generally stronger than plain cardboard boxes, making them rugged enough for long-distance shipping.The American Veterinary Medical Association also cast doubt on the claims.
A video has been viewed millions of times in social media posts that claim it shows a mandatory vaccination campaign in Russia but the claim is misleading  as the footage was taken from a satirical video that makes fun of Russian bureaucracy. Covid-19 vaccination is only compulsory for certain key workers in Russia, as of October 28.The footage, which has been viewed more than 2.5 million times, shows a group of men in black balaclavas knocking on a door, before barging into a man's home. One of the men draws a syringe before apparently injecting him.Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, except for workers in certain sectors such as healthcare, hospitality and education.A reverse image search on Google found a longer version of the video posted on February 22 on YouTube channel "BARAKuda", which has more than 780,000 subscribers.
A  misleading video has circulated in social media posts that fasely claim it shows a man fainting in front of Britain's Prince Charles after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine. the video shows a supermarket employee who passed out while speaking to the royal in July 2020, five months before Britain started its Covid-19 vaccination drive. The man recovered soon after the incident, local media reported. The video shows Charles speaking to a man, who suddenly stumbles backwards and falls to the ground. Text at the end of the video reads: "It's not a vaccine. It's a bioweapon. #RESIST".However, the claim is false.A Google reverse image search of a screengrab of the video found this article from July 10, 2020 by British online newspaper The Independent. The video shared in misleading posts was originally published by The Telegraph newspaper on July 10, 2020.
Social media posts claim US Centers for Disease  CDC data shows children are 107 times more likely to die from Covid-19 shots than from the Covid-19  disease itself  But the CDC says the claim is false, and that it has not found any instances of Covid-19 vaccines causing or contributing to deaths in children. The post, shared to almost 70,000 followers, came days before the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended authorizing the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for five-to-11-year-olds, paving the way for younger children to get their shots within weeks.An online search for the text from the image leads to a web page soliciting money for Children's Health Defense that contains the claim about the CDC data. Kennedy's name appears at the bottom.But CDC spokeswoman Martha Sharan told AFP that it is false.
A video viewed hundreds of thousands of times in multiple posts on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter claims that the oral anti-viral drug molnupiravir can "cure" Covid-19, rendering vaccines pointless however The claim is misleading. Although clinical trials indicate molnuprivir could be an effective treatment for Covid-19, it has not been approved by national or international health authorities for use as of October 25, 2021. Health experts have warned the drug should not be considered a replacement for Covid-19 vaccines.The post includes a three-minute video of a purported doctor talking to a camera.The clip was taken from this longer YouTube video, posted in April 2021.The full YouTube video has been viewed more than 480,000 times.The YouTube channel has a corresponding Facebook page with more than 101,000 followers. It is titled: "Dr Veerapan specialist in brain and neurology".
Flase claims that says Covid-19 vaccines contain parasites which could grow inside an inoculated person's body has been shared repeatedly on several social media posts in South Korea went viral. But these posts -- which recommend those who were vaccinated to take the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin -- are false. Vaccines are manufactured in sterile environments and do not contain parasites as ingredients, experts told AFP. They also warned against the use of ivermectin, citing health risks. The claim was shared alongside a photo of what appears to be a microorganism, taken from a show that has a history of making inaccurate claims about Covid-19 vaccines.The claim is false, according to multiple health experts.South Korea adheres to the internationally recognised good clinical practice (GCP) standard, Kim said. These are a set of pharmaceutical guidelines that mandates a sterile environment during drug manufacturing.
Posts circulating on TikTok and Twitter claim that taking a shower at night will cause rheumatic illness. The claim is misleading. Experts told AFP that showering at night would not cause a rheumatic condition, but advised those suffering from one to avoid showering in the evening as it may worsen their symptoms. Rheumatic diseases  which include gout and arthritis — may cause pain in the muscles, bones, joints and other parts of the body, according to Johns Hopkins Medicine. A similar claim that night showering can cause rheumatic illnesses also appeared in this TikTok post, which has been viewed more than 1,200 times.However, the claim is misleading.Dr Andi Raga Ginting, a rheumatologist at H. Adam Malik General Hospital and Royal Prima Hospital in the Indonesian city of Medan and a lecturer in internal medicine at the University of North Sumatra, said the claim was "100% a myth".








A junior health minister did not state that antiviral drug molnupiravir could soon be used to "fully eradicate" Covid-19 in the island nation. The posts are misleading: the junior minister said molnupiravir could be used to treat Covid-19 patients, but he did not state it could "eradicate" the illness. Health experts warned the drug should not be considered as a replacement for Covid-19 vaccines. The drug's manufacturer said it may significantly reduce the risk of hospitalisation and death in high-risk patients suffering from an early stage of the disease based on a clinical trial it did. "The capsule that will be procured to fully eradicate Covid," reads a Sinhala-language Facebook post from October 13.It was published on a Facebook page for Sri Lankan news channel Hiru News that has more than two million followers.The Facebook post shared an article that quotes Sri Lankan minister Channa Jayasumana.
A video of security guards frogmarching a Black man has been shared thousands of times on Facebook in Nigeria alongside with a false claim that it shows the governor of Nevada state being manhandled because he is an African-American unknown to the police. However, the man in the clip is Republican politician Mack Miller, who is vying for the office of lieutenant governor in Nevada, but is not the incumbent governor. Another video of the same events shows Miller was not the only one ejected from the meeting where local officials passed a resolution declaring Covid-19 misinformation a public health crisis.
A video has been viewed thousands of times in Facebook and Twitter posts that claim it shows Indonesian President Joko Widodo and his wife dancing without face masks at the National Games event in October 2021 however  the claim is false. the footage was filmed in October 2019, months before Indonesia reported its first Covid-19 cases. The video, taken from a now-deleted TikTok post , has text overlay which claims it was filmed at the 20th National Games, which was held from October 2 to October 15, 2021, in Indonesia's Papua province.Indonesia declared its first Covid-19 cases in early March 2020, AFP reported.A reverse image search on Google found a longer version of the video posted here on October 27, 2019, on the Indonesian Cabinet Secretariat's official YouTube account.
Australian Lieutenant General John Frewen did not claim that all Australians must get at least one Covid-19 vaccine shot before Christmas 2021 by making it mandatory. The claim is misleading; Frewen said every Australian would be offered at least one jab before Christmas. Covid-19 vaccination is only compulsory for certain key workers in Australia, as of October 18. It shows Lieutenant General John Frewen  who was appointed to accelerate the nation's vaccine rollout  speaking at a press conference.In the video, Frewen says: "I'll make sure that everybody gets a dose by Christmas. I'll make sure that we put everything in place that we can to get to 70 as fast as we can and then once we've got to 70, we'll have a look at working to get to 80".
Social media posts claim  falsely claim US government workers and pharmaceutical company staff are exempted from Covid-19 vaccination requirements. But President Joe Biden did issue an executive order directing federal employees to get vaccinated, while pharmaceutical firms are also telling their staff to get the shots. The claim spread online after Biden issued an executive order on September 9 requiring Covid-19 vaccination for more than 3.5 million federal workers, including White House staffers.Allowable exceptions vary across the United States, but all states and the District of Columbia allow a medical exemption.In addition to the executive order, Biden introduced a plan to require private employers with more than 100 workers to ensure they are vaccinated or tested weekly. The rule for how this will be applied is being crafted by The Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
A video of Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen receiving her Covid-19 shot at a Taipei hospital has been viewed thousands of times in multiple social media posts alongside a claim there was no needle in the jab however The claim is false: the needle can be seen in other footage taken during Tsai's vaccination. The hospital told AFP that Tsai was vaccinated with a pre-filled syringe which has an undetachable needle. The slow-motion video zooms in as the nurse administers the Covid-19 vaccine, pushing the syringe into Tsai's left arm. The nurse's hand obscures the view of the syringe until it is removed. An identical video and screenshots of the video were also shared on Facebook and here alongside a similar claim.
Inhaling vinegar cannot treat symptoms of Covid-19 by clearing sputum from a patient's airways. The claim is false. Health experts say the claim is “baseless” and the method “can be potentially harmful, both directly and indirectly”.It purports to be a testimony from a Covid-19 survivor. “It can be potentially harmful, both directly and indirectly," for Covid-19 patients to inhale vinegar, said Dr Helmy Haja Mydin, a physician specialising in respiratory medicine at Pantai Hospital Kuala Lumpur, told AFP.Health Desk, a global hub for evidence-based research on Covid-19 created by non-profit organisation Meedan, responded to the false vinegar claim .“Vinegar, a mixture of acetic acid and water, is mildly acidic. Different types of vinegar can contain other substances for flavour and colour. Medical professionals advise caution when rinsing with substances that could irritate sensitive membranes in the nose, mouth, and throat.
Footage of an Israeli doctor speaking about Covid-19 vaccines has been viewed more than one million times in social media posts that misleadingly claims that he criticises the jabs. The posts are misleading; the doctor was in fact encouraging vaccination in the full interview, which has been edited to make it appear he says the shot is ineffective. The video was posted on Twitter on August 6, 2021, and has been viewed more than 1.3 million times.The clip features various extracts from a TV interview with Israeli doctor Kobi Haviv. The tweet purports to show quotes from the interview that appear to cast doubt on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines:  "'95% of the severe patients are vaccinated'."Over-rinsing or rinsing with harsh substances can cause harm rather than health benefits. Nasal rinses and mouthwashes should follow medical and dental guidance. Covid-19 prevention and treatment methods should follow public health and medical guidance".
Social media users falsely claim including US Senator Ted Cruz and Donald Trump Jr suggested that US flight cancelations by Southwest Airlines were caused by a strike in opposition to mandatory vaccination. the company said inclement weather and a staff shortage prompted the cancelations, and the pilots' union said claims of industrial action were unfounded. His remarks echoed Cruz, who derided US President "Joe Biden's illegal vaccine mandate at work" on Twitter the day before, linking it to widespread cancelations over the weekend by the Dallas-based company.  A video posted on Facebook hailed the alleged strikers as heroes But there is currently no strike at Southwest Airlines. The company announced on October 4 that it would require all employees to become fully vaccinated by December 8 to comply with Biden's Covid-19 directives for federal contractors.
An article shared hundreds of times on social media claims that the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has warned of an expected outbreak of a polio-like illness in 2021, however this is false. the CDC's alert was from 2020 and it has issued no such warning in 2021. Furthermore, there is no link between that illness and Covid-19 vaccination, the public health agency told AFP, while data shows that Covid-19 vaccines are overwhelmingly safe. The article claims that the CDC alerted of an expected outbreak in the next four months of Acute Flaccid Myelitis (AFM), a rare but serious neurologic condition, on 17 August 2021. According to the article, the warning can be found in CDC’s latest Vital Signs report, a monthly publication covering important health threats.The claim is false on multiple levels. First of all, the timeline in the article is wrong -- the CDC confirmed to AFP that the agency had not issued any official warnings about AFM in 2021:
 Christine Grady is the chief of bioethics at the US National Institutes for Health, which was not involved in the approval of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines in the United States. The claims appear to originate from this Tik Tok video, which has more than 59,000 likes.Grady is married to Fauci, who is President Biden's chief medical advisor on the pandemic and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease. The couple have three children.However, she is not acting head of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but chief of bioethics at the US National Institutes for Health (NIH).
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not list sterility as a side effect for the ivermectin  medication. US health and drug authorities do not recommend ivermectin as a treatment for Covid-19, but some Americans are taking the drug -- or versions intended for veterinary use -- in the belief that it will protect them or treat the deadly disease.Dr Michael Eisenberg, director of Male Reproductive Medicine and Surgery at Stanford Health Care, told AFP that there is no evidence to support the claim that ivermectin causes sterility in men.





Social media posts claim that proof of Covid-19 vaccination will be required to shop at Walmart stores in Canada starting on November 1, 2021 But the retail giant told AFP the statement circulating online is false.  But Adam Grachnik, director of corporate affairs at Walmart Canada, told AFP that "this information is not true.""Customers do not have to show proof of vaccination to shop at our stores. We continue to work with governments across the country and are following required restrictions," he added. Proof of vaccination is needed to access certain services in some Canadian provinces, but is not required at grocery stores or pharmacies. More than 73 percent of the Canadian population has received at least one Covid-19 shot, while almost 68 percent of the population is fully vaccinated.
A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times in social media posts in August 2021 that claim it shows Germany terminated all Covid-19 vaccinations over safety fears which is false, according to Germany's Federal Ministry of Health. As of September 13, 2021, four vaccines approved by the European Union are being administered in Germany. The video actually shows a "pandemic exit" simulation staged by an anti-lockdown group. It has been viewed more than 16,400 times.  The post claims the video shows "Stephan Kohn"  identified as the "Interim President of the Robert Koch Institute" -- announcing that Germany has put all Covid-19 vaccinations on hold because they are "dangerous".
Multiple social media posts claim that people who do not check out on the app when they leave any location or premise will be fined 1,500 ringgit ($361) However, the claim is false. the Malaysian Ministry of Health denies the existence of the purported fine. MySejahtera is the Malaysian government's official application with functions that include tracing close contacts of Covid-19 infections, showing results of the user's Covid-19 tests and keeping their vaccination record.MySejahtera is the Malaysian government's official application with functions that include tracing close contacts of Covid-19 infections, showing results of the user's Covid-19 tests and keeping their vaccination records.
Facebook posts shared hundreds of times claim a Sri Lankan army officer wrote to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa alleging corruption at a Covid-19 vaccination drive at a military hospital  However, the claim is false; the article is a fabrication, while the army said the story was "baseless". The screenshot features a photo of Sri Lankan journalist Chathura Alwis, who hosts 'Aruna', a morning TV show where he discusses the day's headlines. In July, Sri Lanka drafted in the armed forces to help speed up its Covid-19 vaccination drive. The army set up a series of community vaccination centres including the Narahenpita Army Hospital in the capital Colombo. Some social media users appeared to believe the screenshot showed a genuine newspaper article and that it was deliberately omitted from Alwis' show.
A video of a press conference held by US senators has been viewed tens of thousands of times on Facebook and YouTube alongside a claim that the US Senate has announced that "corona is a scam" ,This is misleading and the US Senate has never made such a declaration, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader told AFP. While the Republican senators in the video are raising questions about the origin of the novel coronavirus, they are not doubting its existence. The same video has also been shared with a similar claim in other languages, including German, French, Malaysian, Serbian, Hungarian and Polish. However, the claim is misleading. The video shows a June 10, 2021 press conference, held by five Republican Party senators: Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Mike Braun of Indiana, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Roger Wicker of Mississippi.
Social media posts claim that drinking  pineapple juice before wisdom tooth surgery is an effective way to reduce inflammation  But doing so is not recommended by US dental associations and experts, and there is no established evidence that it will have a significant effect on patient recuperation. The video in the post, viewed more than four million times, contains a compilation of clips posted on TikTok here and here by two separate individuals documenting their experience after drinking 64 ounces of pure pineapple juice prior to wisdom tooth extraction. The US National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) says there are "conflicting research results on whether bromelain is helpful for pain, swelling, and jaw range of motion after wisdom tooth surgery."
Health experts say there is no evidence that onions can kill the virus or prevent Covid-19 infections.The post then suggests cutting an onion in half and inhaling its fumes before chewing on a second onion.However, the claim is false. The post's Burmese-language caption translates to English in part: "Disinfecting the respiratory tract and cleansing the lungs". Health experts say inhaling onion fumes or consuming onion cannot kill the coronavirus or prevent Covid-19 infections.Dr. Khin Khin Gyi, director of the Central Infectious Diseases Control Division in Myanmar, told AFP on August 30 that inhaling onion fumes cannot kill the virus.













An image  that purportedly shows a can of Kratom juice available to buy in shops however the image, however, has been doctored , the original picture shows a white gourd drink manufactured by a Taiwanese company.   The photo appears to show a green and white can with a picture of a green leaf on it. Kratom has been used for centuries in Southeast Asia and Papua New Guinea for its pain-relieving and mildly stimulating effects, although some health regulators around the world have criticised it as potentially unsafe, as AFP has reported.Comments on the posts indicated some users were misled by the image, with one user asking: "How much is it?"
Online articles and social media posts claim a University of Oxford study found that vaccinated Covid-19 patients carry 251 times the viral load of those who have not received the shots but the study's authors said the claim is a misrepresentation of their findings, as did a public health expert.
The article was written by Peter McCullough, a doctor who made a series of inaccurate claims about Covid-19 vaccines in testimony to the Senate of the US state of Texas. But the study authors, who analyzed breakthrough infections among health care workers at a hospital in Vietnam, issued a statement addressing the claim, calling it "false" and a "misrepresentation of the data." They compared viral loads from patients infected with the original SARS-CoV-2 strain with those from fully vaccinated health care workers infected with the highly contagious Delta variant.
A video has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times in social media posts that  claim it shows someone mourning the death of a popular Filipino comedian who died from Covid-19 in the Philippines however This is false. the footage was actually taken in Indonesia. It has circulated in reports about an Indonesian health worker who died from Covid-19. It shows three people wearing full personal protective equipment surrounding a covered corpse on a hospital trolley bed.One man can be seen crouching next to the bed while another person consoles him. The claim, however, is false. The video was in fact taken in Indonesia. Using the digital verification tool InVID-WeVerify, a reverse image search of the video's keyframes shows identical footage and images were published by Indonesian media outlets.
Social media users in Sri Lanka have shared a video featuring an indigenous medicine practitioner who claims Covid-19 vaccinations cause an increase in coronavirus variants and kill more people but these claims are false. Experts told AFP viruses mutate "independent of the vaccine", and approved Covid-19 vaccines prevent severe disease and death. The video features an interview with an indigenous medical practitioner named BA Rathnapala. "This vaccination is killing people. This is a sinful act  The more you vaccinate, the more people will die." The video circulated online as local media reported the Sri Lankan government is mulling making Covid-19 vaccination cards mandatory for citizens to access public facilities.But the claims in these posts are false, according to multiple health experts.
The viral  photo does not show a vaccine passport protest in France  it was taken at a demonstration in 2015. An image has been shared in multiple social media posts about protests against so-called vaccine passports in France. The posts, however, are misleading: the image was taken by an AFP photographer at a demonstration in Paris following the Charlie Hebdo attacks in January 2015. “Go France! The whole world is watching, go go go!” reads an screenshot in a Facebook post published on August 27, 2021. Hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated against the health pass championed by President Emmanuel Macron. 
A video has been viewed tens of thousands of times on Twitter alongside with a false claim it shows Russian President Vladimir Putin pledging his support for a US-led investigation probe into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic. the clip shows Putin speaking about Russian Covid-19 vaccines in February, months before US President Joe Biden ordered the investigation. The video  which has been viewed more than 68,000 times  shows Putin talking to a group of people in an online meeting.In May, US President Joe Biden ordered a probe into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic. A report in August was unable to definitively conclude whether the virus had jumped to humans via animals or had escaped a highly secure research facility in Wuhan.
A recipe combining several tropical fruits and other plants is being shared on Facebook in Cameroon alongside a claim that the mixture can cure cancer. However, this is false. Experts told AFP Fact Check that the claims are baseless and there is no miracle food to heal the disease.However, there is no scientific evidence that this concoction can heal cancer. Experts told AFP Fact Check that no studies corroborate these claims.Cancer is one of the leading causes of death, killing more than 10 million people in 2020, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Furthermore, 70 percent of cancer-related deaths occur in low and middle-income countries, data from the World Bank shows.
A claim has been shared  that the late Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi predicted the Covid-19 pandemic however the claim is misleading. the posts have misquoted Kadhafi 's 2009 speech. Muammar Gaddafi, or Moamer Kadhafi, was a Libyan dictator who ruled from 1969 to 2011. In 2011, during the wider Arab Spring movement, he refused to hand over power during public protests. This led to the outbreak of a civil war. He was shot dead in October 2011.Covid-19 was first reported in late December 2019 and declared a pandemic in March 2020.The posts, which included an image of Kadhafi speaking at the United Nations in 2009.The misleading posts have misquoted part of Kadhafi's speech. In this section of the speech, Kadhafi argued medicines and vaccines should be made freely available around the world. He went on to criticise what he saw as "capitalist companies" profiting from vaccines.
A post shared on Facebook in Ethiopia claims the BBC reported that World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has been barred from running for re-election But the claim is false. the BBC ran a story in August 2021 about a US non-profit group opposing Tedros seeking another term, but there is no record of reports about him being prohibited from doing so. The post cites a BBC News article and adds that people interested in the position should put their names forward in a month’s time. Tedros has been the public face of the WHO’s efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic ever since the SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged in Wuhan, China in December 2019.
An image has been shared in Facebook and Twitter posts claiming it shows Philippine Interior Secretary Eduardo Año urging couples to practice social distancing after sex to curb the spread of Covid-19 the image has been doctored to add a fabricated quote, and the purported advice is not part of the Philippine government's Covid-19 guidelines. The logo of student journalism platform Explained PH features at the bottom of the image.The purported guidelines prompted criticism from social media users. "This is ridiculous coming from the interior department. This is giving out misinformation to people. Is the health department aware this is happening?" another wrote.
Multiple social media posts have shared a misleading video which claim  a protest in France against so-called vaccine passports however ,the claim is false: the footage actually shows football fans in Iceland celebrating their national team arriving home. The claim was published amid protests in France against the government's introduction of a new health pass system.It requires people to present proof of vaccination or a negative test to enter a restaurant, theatre, cinema, long-distance train, or a large shopping centre. The video appears to have originated from this entry on video-sharing site Rumble.The video actually shows a gathering of football fans in Iceland in 2016.The video was originally published by Icelandic telecommunications company and TV channel Síminn on July 4, 2016.
A recipe for vegetable soup has been shared by Sri Lankan Facebook users alongside a claim it will "cure" Covid-19 infection within three days. The claim is false: medical professionals said there is no evidence the purported remedy can cure Covid-19. The recipe was shared in this Facebook post on August 15, 2021. It has been shared more than 1,000 times.Professor Priyadarshani Galapatthy, medical humanities department head of the University of Colombo, said there was no scientific study to support the claim.An official from Sri Lanka's Health Promotion Bureau also said the claim was false."There are several herbal products, home remedies and various methods that people are promoting for treatment/ prevention of Covid-19 without any substantial evidence to support these claims," she said.
A claim has been shared in multiple Facebook posts that Sri Lanka "surpassed all other nations and ranked first" in Covid-19 death rates on August 8, 2021 ,But these posts are misleading: they show incomplete data from a database of global Covid-19 trends. The full database in fact shows at least 20 other countries had higher virus death rates on August 8. The claim was shared in this Facebook post on August 9, 2021."As per this research carried out based on the data for August 8, the Covid-19 fatality rate in Sri Lanka has been cited as 4.06 per million people."Keyword searches on Google found the chart shared in the posts corresponds to this chart published on Our World in Data -- an online database that tracks Covid-19 trends worldwide using data from Johns Hopkins University.
A claim that hot pineapple water has been circulating in multiple posts on Instagram and Facebook. The claim is misleading; scientists say there is not enough evidence to show that pineapple water can be used as an effective cancer remedy or treatment.  The claim was posted on July 27, 2021, on Instagram , where it has received more than 6,600 Likes. This claim, however, is misleading and not supported by scientists and health professionals.Scientists say that while pineapples contain compounds that have numerous health benefits, there is not enough evidence to show that the fruit would be an effective cancer treatment for humans.Professor Dr Aru Wisaksono Sudoyo, chairman of the Indonesian Cancer Foundation, said that there is no evidence to support the use of pineapple as a treatment for cancer.While consuming pineapple and other healthy fruits and vegetables may help reduce the risk of cancer, it is important to note that they are not equivalent to medical treatments or therapies for the disease, he said. 
Social media posts are sharing a photo of police at a protest in France alongside the claim that officers sided with the demonstrators against vaccine "passports"as  this is false. police were there to secure the rally, not to take part in it, they and the photographer confirmed. Posts showing the same picture have been shared thousands of times with similar claims in French and in Bulgarian.Police officers usually remove their helmets at times when there is no tension at a demonstration. A reverse image search reveals that the photo was originally posted on Twitter on July 24, 2021 by Lucas Léger, a journalist for RT France, the French version of Kremlin-funded RT (formerly Russia Today).Contacted by AFP, Léger confirmed in a Twitter message that "they are mobile gendarmes and obviously they were not demonstrating but were framing the demonstration as closely as possible, as sometimes happens."
A post displaying a news headline-like screenshot warns that all schools in the United States will be closed in the second week of August 2021 but  the posts are a prank created using a fake news alert generator. the post uses a fake breaking news headline generator. "Create A Prank & Trick Your Friends," the website's homepage says.  Similar Facebook posts were shared in early August 2021 claiming some schools are closing their doors again. These posts refer to a "list" of school systems impacted by closures; but the link used as a source for this "list" leads to an image making clear the post is a joke. As of August 11, 2021, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) guidance states that "children should return to full-time in-person learning in the fall with layered prevention strategies in place."
Multiple social media posts have shared a claim that the Baduy indigenous community in Indonesia have never been vaccinated however this claim is false. The Baduy community have received various immunisations, from polio to diphtheria vaccines, and more recently Covid-19, according to local media reports and traditional leaders.  The claim was posted on Twitter here on August 1, 2021, and has since been retweeted more than 700 times. The Baduy refers a relatively isolated indigenous community who live in a district in Lebak regency in Indonesia's Banten province, in the western part of Java island. Covid-19 has claimed more than 112,000 lives and infected more than 3.7 million people, according to the Indonesian Health Ministry data on August 11, 2021. Indonesian state news agency Antara reported in March 2010 that Baduy children under five years old had been inoculated against various infectious diseases, such as polio, TBC, diphteria, hepatitis B and measles.
A chart purporting to show a schedule of pre-planned coronavirus variants has been shared thousands of times on social media as proof of a baseless conspiracy theory that the pandemic was staged. But viruses mutate unpredictably, several of the variants have already been detected ahead of the supposed timetable, and the groups whose logos appear in the posts -- including the World Health Organization  told AFP that the image is not genuine. The same image is also found in Facebook and Instagram posts making similar claims in English, as well as in French, Romanian, Indonesian and German posts. It includes the logos of the World Health Organization (WHO), World Economic Forum (WEF), Johns Hopkins University and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Asked by AFP about the chart, the WHO and the WEF said that it doesn't represent their work.
The first Covid-19 autopsy was conducted in China in February 2020. Health authorities and medical experts all say Covid-19 is caused by a virus called SARS-CoV-2. Singapore's Health Ministry have also said the claims are not true and singapore did not codcuted first covid autopsy. The first Covid-19 autopsy was conducted on an 85-year-old Chinese man in January 2020, according to the examination report published here by China's Journal of Forensic Medicine in February 2020. Singapore reported its first two Covid-19-related deaths on March 21, 2020.Responding to the misleading posts, the Singaporean Ministry of Health said on June 7, 2021 that the content "is NOT true" and "Singapore has not performed such an autopsy."
Multiple posts on Facebook and WhatsApp in Nigeria claim that taking anti-inflammatory medication diclofenac or having “any anaesthesia” within two years of a Covid-19 vaccine leads to death. This is false; while experts discourage the use of analgesics before taking the vaccine, this is because the effect on the jab’s ability to create an immune response is unclear. There is no evidence to show that painkillers taken after the Covid-19 vaccine cause death.

Hundreds of Facebook posts, some of which have circulated for years, claim a Chinese professor found that drinking hot lemon water kills cancer cells. The claim is false; health experts say that no particular food, including lemon, can cure cancer. AFP found no trace of the Chinese professor, whose name has long been linked to the lemon "cure" in social media posts promoting it.
Prof Dr Golam Mohiuddin Faruque, a cancer specialist and project director at Bangladesh Cancer Society Hospital, said the idea that lemons could cure cancer was "unsubstantiated". "Citrus fruits including lemon sometimes can have some positive impact in preventing certain types of cancers but that's not a treatment."
South African kwaito musician Bonginkosi “Zola 7” Dlamini is not dead . This is false: the music star is alive and responded to the rumours in a video interview.  A Facebook post published on July 25, 2021, links to an article titled: Zola 7 Death – Dead: Zola 7 Cause of Death, Obituary, Funeral. The article has been shared more than 200 times on Facebook, according to social media monitoring tool CrowdTangle. Some social media users quickly believed the worst. Weeks earlier, Dlamini revealed to South Africa’s City Press newspaper that he had been diagnosed with chronic epilepsy three years ago. The musician discussed his health issues during a podcast interview released on May 6, 2021.
A photo has been shared hundreds of times in multiple social media posts that claim it shows a large rally for an Indian Muslim politician during the pandemic however the claim is false.  the photo shows an Islamic procession in Bangladesh in 2019. Asaduddin Owaisi is leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party and member of parliament for Hyderabad in India's southern Telangana state. The post emerged online after speculation about the AIMIM teaming up with other parties in a bid to defeat the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh's upcoming assembly elections in February 2022.However, the claim is false.
The claim is false: the World Health Organization and the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) in South Africa told AFP Fact Check that Covid-19 vaccines do not contain cells from aborted foetuses or other human tissue. The three-minute clip has been shared more than 330 times since it was posted on Facebook on July 17, 2021. Besides including the claim that mRNA Covid-19 vaccines contain aborted human foetal matter, the video makes two other unsubstantiated claims: that the vaccines can alter a person’s DNA and that they can render people sterile. The clip, which was extracted from a longer video originally posted here on YouTube on February 5, 2021, features preacher Joshua Maponga interviewing guest Mike Southwood in a show dubbed “why Africans should not take vaccine (sic)”.
This video shows an anti-government protest in Colombia  not virus victims in Indonesia.The video has been viewed more than 4,100 times. The post circulated online in Thailand after the kingdom's Covid-19 infection and death rates increased, as AFP has reported here. The country has recorded 426, 475 Covid-19 infections and 3,502 deaths as of July 21. A reverse Google image search with video keyframes extracted with InVID-WeVerify, a digital verification tool, found this longer version footage uploaded on YouTube on May 27, 2021. Colombia has been rocked by protests which broke out late April in opposition to a proposed tax hike under the right-wing administration of President Ivan Duque, AFP reported.The international community has condemned a security response that left more than 60 people dead.
A Facebook video cites Harvard research to  falsely claim that people vaccinated against Covid-19 are at greatest risk from the coronavirus Delta variant that causes the disease. However, a Harvard professor confirmed that the video misrepresents his analysis, and health authorities and studies suggest the best protection from the virus is through vaccination. The highly infectious Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has contributed to a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the United States. Delta is one of four notable variants circulating in the United States, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says on its website. However, Hanage says that his remarks do not support DePice's claims in the video. "Not only are all the claims false, but I did not make them," he told AFP on July 20.
Multiple Facebook posts have repeatedly shared a claim that all commercially available vaccines purportedly contain a cancer-causing substance called graphene oxide But these posts are misleading: experts separately told AFP that graphene oxide is not used in commercially available vaccines. The most commonly used vaccines go through rigorous testing and have been safely used for decades, according to the World Health Organization. Graphene oxide is a derivative of graphene which is reportedly the world's thinnest material first isolated in 2004. But these posts are misleading, according to multiple experts. Vaccines currently in use are "comprised of phospholipid layers, peptides or nucleic acids, and graphene oxide is not part of these categories," Park said. The claim that all commercially available vaccines were 99% made up of graphene oxide was "ungrounded in fact," Professor Hong Byung-hee, an expert in nanomaterials at Seoul National University, told AFP on July 19, 2021.
A claim has been shared in multiple social media posts in South Korea that regularly drinking salt water cleanses the blood by purportedly providing the same benefits as intravenous saline drips. The posts are misleading; medical experts told AFP consuming copious amounts of salt is harmful and intravenous saline drips are not used to cleanse the blood, as the posts claim. The claim was shared in YouTube video posted on February 18, 2018 and viewed more than 170,000 times.  "First, let’s look at Ringer’s solutions. Ringer’s solutions put salt water into a person's body and regenerate it by activating the organs and removing waste materials. Ringer's solution refers to laboratory solutions of salts in water administered intravenously for medical purposes.However, medical experts say the posts are misleading. 
There is no scientific evidence that inhaling clove vapour can cure Covid-19, medical experts told AFP. A video has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook, YouTube and TikTok, with this  claim.The clip was uploaded on May 15, 2021 on Facebook , where it has been viewed more than 5,300 times.It shows men inhaling steam from a makeshift device made of a pressure cooker on a stove. Clove, a spice with a strong aroma, is commonly used for food flavouring and medicinal purposes in Asian countries. The video has been viewed more than 2,400 times after it also appeared with a similar claim on Facebook .The claim has also circulated with different clips of people demonstrating how to boil the cloves and inhale the steam.When asked by AFP, Dr Jemilah Mahmood, special health adviser to the Malaysian prime minister, said on July 11, 2021: "There is no scientific evidence that it is a cure , but in general steam inhalation with menthol and clove oil can relieve congestion and help patients feel a little better but it is temporary relief."
Social media posts claim that Covid-19 vaccines contain robotic "nanotechnology" that can change people's DNA but expert says they do not feature miniature robots, and Covid-19 jabs cannot alter a person's genetic makeup. But the word "nanotechnology" refers to anything that has been engineered at the nanoscale, and it does not necessarily relate to mechanical or mineral elements, as the photo suggests. Nanotechnology is used in the food and cosmetics industries, for example.The mRNA vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna differ from previously administered inoculations. Instead of confronting the immune system with part of a virus in a weakened or deactivated form to build antibodies, they give it a "blueprint" of a part of the virus that the body can then recognize and fight when confronted by it later.
 Experts say that the homemade device does not produce sufficient oxygen for Covid-19 patients with breathing difficulties. The first part of the clip was posted on July 1, 2021, on Twitter, where it has garnered more than 5,100 views. As the number of Covid-19 cases surges in Indonesia, overwhelmed hospitals have been forced to turn away patients, forcing desperate families to hunt for oxygen tanks to treat the sick and dying at home, AFP reported here.The WHO has also shared care guidance for Covid-19 patients at home, including oxygen therapy, which has been published on its website. 


After Sri Lanka received its first batch of Pfizer vaccines, multiple posts shared among Sri Lankan Facebook users falselyb claim Sri Lanka was the first South Asian nation to receive the American-made Covid-19 jabs. The claim, however, is misleading: both the Maldives and Bhutan in South Asia received Pfizer vaccines through a global vaccine sharing facility before Sri Lanka.   Channa Jayasumana is Sri Lanka's State Minister of Production, Supply and Regulation of Pharmaceuticals. 'Narahenpita central blood bank' refers to the National Blood Center of Sri Lanka in the capital city Colombo.An image appearing to show a woman receiving a Covid-19 jab purportedly from Pfizer has been shared along with the post. 
A video has been shared in multiple posts on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter along with a false  claim that it shows tap water tested positive for Covid-19 however ,the claim is  not true. The manufacturer of the test kit clarifies that the test device is “not for use with water or any other foods or liquids”. The video was posted on June 21, 2021, on Facebook , where it has been viewed more than 7,400 times. Abbott Laboratories is a US-based medical devices and health care company. It is one of a number of companies that manufacture rapid test kits to detect Covid-19. It also appeared with a similar claim in Indonesian on Twitter  and in Hindi on YouTube .
Social media posts claim Covid-19 vaccines could contain trackers, citing a video showing a positive reading when a device designed to detect pet chips is held over the arm of a vaccinated woman however  this totally wrong and not true. the person who posted the video subsequently described it as a joke, and US health authorities say the vaccines do not contain trackers. In the clip, the pet chip reader  used to identify lost animals  is held over a woman’s right arm and finds nothing, but returns a result when held over her left, in which she said she received her shot.It was posted on Tik Tok by user jasmine_0708, where it received more than 1.1 million likes and more than 400,000 shares. It then spread to Facebook, Instagram, as well as on Tik Tok.
Social media posts featuring four microscope slides supposedly showing blood cells before and after Covid-19 vaccination claim that immunization permanently alters human blood which is not true. experts told AFP that the images show incorrectly prepared red blood cell samples unrelated to Covid-19 inoculation, and said that the posts are unscientific. The cells are perfectly round in the first image, oval in the second, floating alongside a multitude of little white dots in the third, and covered in goosebumps in the fourth. It is the latest of numerous false and misleading claims about Covid-19 shots.
Multiple Facebook posts have shared a photo that they claim shows a woman pregnant with quadruplets , but the claim is false: the photo has in fact circulated in news reports about a patient who underwent surgery for an ovarian cyst  not a pregnant woman. The photo was shared by a Papua New Guinea-based Facebook user here on June 1, 2021.The photo has circulated on social media worldwide -- including on Nigerian and South African Facebook pages where it has been shared more than 40,000 times alongside a similar claim. AFP found the picture appears in this May 2018 news report published by media organisation Viet Nam News about a woman with an ovarian cyst. 
Multiple social media posts have shared a false claim that consuming paracetamol painkiller dissolved in a soda drink works as a remedy for anxiety and depression but these posts are misleading as health says there is no credible evidence the mixture can treat the conditions. They also warn that unregulated consumption of the mixture could lead to harm. TikTok videos viewed more than 600,000 times since May 2021 recommend the mixture as a way to ease anxiety and depression,However, these posts are misleading, according to multiple health  experts. Paracetamol and Coke separately do not contain ingredients that help with anxiety or depression, Charibel Escandalor, president of the non-profit organisation Philippine College of Psychopharmacology, told AFP on June 16, 2021.
Multiple posts shared on Facebook claim that a concoction of coconut water; salt; honey and lime juice, can cure Covid-19 infection which is totally baseless and not true. The claim is false: the recipe has not been proven as a remedy for Covid-19, medical experts told AFP.  The post’s Indonesian-language caption translates to English as: “In the name of Allah. A natural remedy/medicine to cure coronavirus.  The purported remedy has not been scientifically proven as a Covid-19 cure, according to Ari Fahrial Syam, professor of internal medicine and dean of the University of Indonesia’s medical school. “That’s a hoax, false news,” he told AFP on June 10, 2021. “As of now, there is no modern or herbal medicine that can effectively kill Covid-19.”
Instagram posts claim that Dasani bottled water contains the same compound used to kill inmates on death row, giving the impression that the water is toxic which  is misleading. experts say potassium chloride is a commonly occurring essential nutrient, the amounts used for bottled water and lethal injections are not comparable, and injection is far more dangerous than drinking it. While potassium chloride (KCl) is indeed used intravenously to stop the heart in some executions, experts say it is perfectly safe to drink the small quantities sometimes present in bottled water. Gaboury Benoit, an environmental chemistry professor at Yale University, rated the claim that Dasani water is toxic because of KCl in “the pants on fire category. Not only is potassium chloride common, it’s also an “essential nutrient” for the body, Ohio State University Professor of Food, Agricultural and Biological Engineering Karen Mancl said.
Multiple Facebook posts claim Covid-19 vaccines contain electronic devices that can turn on light bulbs which  is false, according to health experts. The misleading posts included a screenshot of a video that shows a light bulb trick.  The posts includes a screenshot of a man holding a light bulb close to his arm, purportedly where a Covid-19 jab was administered. The posts includes a screenshot of a man holding a light bulb close to his arm, purportedly where a Covid-19 jab was administered. These claims, however, are false. “There are no ingredients in Covid-19 vaccines that could react to or power light bulbs,” a spokesman at Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) told AFP on June 9, 2021.
Facebook posts shared thousands of times warn that four people have died in Thailand after eating meat infected with lumpy skin disease, a viral infection in cattle however authorities told AFP the reports were baseless, and the disease is not transmissible from animals to humans.
"Please be careful, there is a disease that is spreading among cows and pigs in Thailand which makes them get lumps like zombies," the Burmese-language caption reads. The post shared photos of cattle suffering from lumpy skin disease, a potentially fatal condition which is spread by insects and causes nodules on the skin. 
A claim has been shared in multiple Facebook posts since May 2021 that Sweden stopped using PCR tests for diagnosing Covid-19 as these tests are purportedly unable to detect contagiousness however the claim is false. sweden continues to use PCR tests in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 as of June 4, 2021.  Swedish health authorities use clinical criteria -- not PCR tests -- to assess whether someone infected with the virus is still contagious.  
The claim was shared in this graphic posted on Facebook on May 19, 2021. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests are the most commonly used method to detect the presence of SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.
The viral  posts misrepresent one measure of vaccine efficacy referred to in an article as evidence that the inoculations are ineffective, and its authors clearly say the shots work. Medical journal did not say Covid-19 vaccines offer limited protection. In the United States, more than 296 million Covid-19 shots have been administered. Although the rate of new infections is declining, misinformation about vaccines continues to spread, threatening vaccine uptake. The article is not peer-reviewed research as the posts claim, but rather analyzes other studies. It discusses the different ways vaccine effectiveness can be assessed and says relative risk reduction (RRR) the most publicized figure -- should not be the only statistic used when making public health decisions. The article says that absolute risk reduction (ARR) needs to be taken into consideration to get the full picture of how effective a vaccine is.
Multiple posts shared online in South Korea claim that taking a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test repeatedly for Covid-19 can make your forehead magnetic However, the claim is the latest in a string of misleading claims linking coronavirus tests and vaccines to magnets. The post includes a video clip of a woman separately putting a coin and a key on her forehead. As she shakes her head, the objects appear to stay attached. A PCR test diagnoses people who are currently infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. The test, which involves collecting a swab sample from a person’s nose or throat, is considered the most accurate and reliable test for Covid-19. However, the claim is false.
A message shared repeatedly on Facebook and Twitter in India claims that the country's catastrophic second wave of Covid-19 cases was caused by 5G technology  however  the World Health Organization  have said there is no evidence that radiation emitted from 5G is harmful to human health. India has recorded the world’s second-highest number of Covid-19 cases  behind the United States  with more than 27 million infections, according to an AFP tally on May 27, 2021.  These claims are false and baseless. Experts have rubbished claims that 5G technology causes Covid-19. Rodney Croft, a professor at the University of Wollongong and an ICNIRP member, told AFP: “There are not any adverse health effects caused by exposure to 5G."
An online video says the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine contains a cancer-causing ingredient that is not fit for human use which is not true about this. But the warning in the data sheet used to “prove” the claim is about chloroform, a toxic compound that regulators do not list as being in the vaccine. The narrator in the video, which has also been shared on Instagram, searches for a breakdown of what is in Covid-19 vaccines, clicking on a chemical supplier’s website that provides details about a product called SM-102, the same name as one of the ingredients in Moderna’s vaccine. SM-102 is a lipid that helps to shield fragile mRNA molecules  the messenger ribonucleic acid technology used in such shots -- and deliver them into cells. The video features the first page of a Safety Data Sheet for SM-102, available on the website of Cayman Chemical, a biotech company based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, which clearly indicates that the substance is “for research use only.”
spokespersons from Nestlé and Hershey, the companies that manufacture Kit Kat, separately told AFP that they did not release the chocolate bar featured in the social media posts for promoting gay pride. The image purports to show a screenshot of an article from the “O’Liddy News Network” published on June 23, 2020.  Nestlé manufactures and distributes Kit Kat bars globally, except in the United States, where the confectionary brand Hershey owns distribution rights. In response to the misleading posts, Nestlé and Hershey separately told AFP they had not released the Kit Kat bar shown in the photo. “The Hershey Company has not released this Kit Kat product or this image that you reference below,” a Hershey spokesperson said on May 24. 
Several images of a steam inhalation device have been shared repeatedly in multiple Facebook posts alongside a claim that it could help prevent or cure Covid-19 infection but health experts said there is no evidence that inhaling steam can prevent or cure Covid-19.  The post suggests the device could be used to prevent or even cure Covid-19 infection.  The phrase “need of the hour” refers to a surge in Covid-19 infections in Sri Lanka. As of May 25, 2021 more than 160,000 infections and over 1,200 Covid-19 related deaths have been recorded in Sri Lanka. The claim is false: health experts say there is no scientific evidence that steam inhalation helps prevent or cure Covid-19.Dr. Ashan Pathirana, from Sri Lanka’s health bureau, told AFP that the steam inhalation device pictured in the misleading posts may increase the risk of Covid-19 infection through cross-contamination.
 The law does not state that frontline workers can be imprisoned if they ignore the rules, the spokesperson said. Edwards false claims has previously made headlines in the New Zealand media for street preaching.  He goes on to claim the fines might be reduced if the accused can prove they “didn’t know” about the new rules. A spokesperson from the New Zealand Ministry of Health (MoH) also told AFP in an email that airport, port and government quarantine staff will not be imprisoned if they are not vaccinated. The same fines for breaching the vaccination order are also stated on the New Zealand Govt.
The World Health Organization (WHO) said there is no scientific evidence that lemon can fight the virus. Experts also said there is not enough scientific evidence to prove that vitamin C can prevent or treat Covid-19. The unidentified Hindu priest in the video recommends the remedy, which he claims has cured people infected by the virus.The regional office of the World Health Organization (WHO) in South-East Asia told AFP that there is no scientific evidence to show that lemon juice can kill or prevent coronavirus infection.The WHO also debunked the claim on its website. “There is no scientific evidence that lemon prevents Covid-19. In general, however, WHO recommends consuming adequate fruit and vegetables as part of a healthy diet,” it said.
According to Harvard University Medical School, the practice has been around for centuries. Still, Harvard researchers say there is “no scientific evidence to support vaginal steaming, in which a woman sits over a bowl of steaming herb-infused water”. Oluwasola said the practice leads to the “destruction of the normal biological flora” of the vagina and could cause burns and injury. “When the burnt area heals, it can lead to vaginal stenosis (narrowing),” he added.“There's no scientific evidence that it serves any useful purpose,” he said. Dr Sesan Oluwasola, an obstetrician at the University College Hospital in southern Nigeria, told AFP Fact Check that vaginal steaming is not something he would recommend for fibroids and menstrual pain.
The 27-second video shows Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talking to the camera while gesturing at a number of objects on display, including a syringe.A fabricated and misleading  video has been viewed hundreds of thousands times in Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube that claim  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin purportedly threatening to kill Muslims with vaccines as he didn't mention killing muslims. A reverse image search on Yandex, followed by Google keyword searches, found a longer video was posted on Netanyahu’s official Instagram account here on January 18, 2021. The 44-second clip is captioned: “Listen to a story.”
Multiple online posts have shared a claim that Thai citizens can get inoculated against Covid-19 with their vaccine of choice when they visit as tourists in neighbouring Laos which is false.  as of May 18, 2021 foreign tourists were not permitted to enter Laos; the country only administers the Chinese-made Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccine to those eligible for jabs.  The Thai-language claim was shared in  Facebook post on May 3, 2021. The misleading post links to a registration page for Covid-19 vaccination run by the Laos Ministry of Health. The claim circulated online as Thailand battles to contain a third wave of Covid-19 infections, AFP reported. As of May 18, 2021, Thailand has recorded more than 111,000 Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic. 
A misleading Facebook posts circulating in South Korea falsely claim that Covid-19 is "merely a common cold that we see every year", referencing news reports from 2013 which mentioned a "novel coronavirus".  the 2013 reports referred to the MERS outbreak in South Korea, which was caused by a different virus, according to health experts.
Facebook posts circulating in May 2021 a misleading claim that China has abandoned Covid-19 jabs in favour of a vaccine that can be inhaled which not is True. The Chinese vaccine company is carrying out trials for an “inhaled vaccine”, the product has not been rolled out as of May 14, 2021. China has continued to use traditional Covid-19 jabs and has made no indication it will abandon them. The post features a Chinese-language video with Thai subtitles.The World Health Organization (WHO) approved China’s Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use on May 7, 2021. It was the first Chinese-made jab to get the health agency’s green light. The WHO has already given emergency use to five other vaccines made by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and the AstraZeneca jab being produced at sites in India and South Korea, which it counts separately.
As Thailand faced a surge in coronavirus cases, a message circulated on Facebook that claimed a Thai herbal drink can cure Covid-19 however experts says  that there was no evidence the purported medicine can treat people infected with Covid-19: the pharmaceutical company that developed the herbal drink said it “does not have any effects on the coronavirus”.  The posts circulated online as Thailand brought in new restrictions to counter a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. Parks, cinemas, and swimming pools were closed in the capital Bangkok. As of May 11, 2021, the country has recorded 85,005 virus cases since the beginning of the pandemic.  But the claim is false, according to the drug company that developed the herbal medicine.  Dr. Kajornsak Kaewjaras, the deputy director-general of the Thai Department of Disease Control, said the “green medicine can’t be used to treat Covid-19”.
Facebook posts with a video viewed thousands of times claim to show a flooded hospital in Kenya but in reality ootage was filmed inside a hospital in eastern Ghana.. The 30-second clip features a profusely leaking roof inside a patient’s room. In the clip, water is seen pouring through a leaking roof into a medical ward. An overflowing blue plastic bucket sits on the floor next to a hospital bed occupied by a patient. Some social media users in Kenya shared the footage to highlight government negligence. Others posted links to an online campaign calling on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to stop loaning money to Kenya “until proper accountability mechanisms to ensure the money is put to good use are in place”.
Social media posts share an image combining photographs of well-known Indian doctors with a claim that Covid-19 jabs can cause permanent impotence and infertility but the World Health Organization (WHO) says there is no scientific evidence that Covid-19 vaccines cause impotence or infertility. India's drug regulation authorities dismissed the claims as "absolute rubbish". The post features images of some doctors in India who have expressed skepticism on social media about Covid-19 vaccines. India expanded its vaccination programme in May 2021 to include all adults but many states have said they have insufficient stocks to meet demand, AFP reported. A clip of VG Somani speaking to reporters was published here by Indian news agency Asian News International on its official Twitter on January 3, 2021.
homeopathy medicine is not substitute for oxygen therapy when treating severely ill Covid-19 patients so the posts circulated online in India as it faced a shortage of medical oxygen while coronavirus cases soared.  The claim is false, according to health experts. The World Health Organization (WHO) also said it would not recommend the homeopathy medicine as an alternative to oxygen as of May 4, 2021. The claim was published on Facebook on April 28, 2021. Aspidosperma is a homeopathy medicine sold in India. Dr. Bhaskar Bhatt, former president of Homeopathy Medical Association of India, told AFP homeopathy medicines were not a substitute for oxygen treatment for Covid-19 patients.
A group of parents in Vail, Arizona did not  took over the school board and revoked a mask requirement. This is false; a spokeswoman for the school system said the original board members remain in place, as does the mask rule, and a senior education official reiterated that face coverings are still required as protection against coronavirus. The tweet was shared more than 6,000 times, and screenshots of the post also spread on Facebook, such as this one shared more than 2,000 times.Face covering requirements remain a flashpoint in the United States for those who view them as an inconvenience or a brake on personal freedom, although guidelines are easing alongside the country’s widespread vaccination drive. Inaccurate information about masks has flourished online.
Biden not alone wore a mask during 2021 virtual climate summit . This is false; the post features a screenshot of a video call when Biden was alone in the frame, but officials and journalists were present in the room, and leaders from at least six other countries wore masks at other times during the summit. The posts were shared during and after the April 22-23 virtual climate summit organized by Biden that included 40 other world leaders. Together, they vowed to meet or ramp up their goals to reduce emissions and slow global warming. The logo visible in the top left of the image shows that the screenshot was taken during an April 22 live stream broadcast by Russian media Ruptly. However, the claim that Biden was alone in the room during the summit is false. US climate envoy John Kerry and US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken also sat at a table with Biden. 
Experts reject claim that supplements can counter Covid-19 vaccines.Articles shared on social media claim several dietary supplements can serve to “neutralize” effects of widely-used Covid-19 shots. This is false; doctors dismiss the claim, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says the inoculations are safe and effective.The author names iodine, zinc, quercetin, carbon 60, and pyrroloquinoline quinone (pqq) as the “TOP FIVE recommended substances to mitigate damage from mRNA vaccines (in no particular order)” and provides links to purchase them. In what appears to be an online sales pitch aimed at vaccine skeptics, it attributes the information to “a physician who wishes to remain anonymous.” It also appears on a website called “Prepare for Change.” 
The viral video on social media platforms  shows victims of a gas leak at an Indian chemical plant in 2020 not covid-19 victims who died in india's second wave.The video was shared in this Facebook post on April 23, 2021. The post's Sinhala-language caption translates to English as: "India's current situation. May the triple gems bless you all". The posts were shared as India's virus infection and death rate grew exponentially, overwhelming hospitals. AFP reported on the crisis . Part of the same video was also aired by Sri Lankan TV channel Hiru on their news programme on April 23, 2021. It was titled: "Highest number of infections (Covid-19) from India". A reverse Google image search with video keyframes extracted with InVID-WeVerify, a digital verification tool, found this identical footage uploaded on YouTube on May 7, 2020.
The viral image of a woman transporting an oxygen tank was taken in Bangladesh, not India. The posts were shared as India's coronavirus infection rates soared to record levels, resulting in shortages of oxygen and hospital beds. The claim is false: the photo was taken in Bangladesh. Patna is the capital of the east Indian state of Bihar, which is governed by chief minister Nitish Kumar. The post circulated online as India's healthcare system, home to 1.3 billion people, was stretched to the limit by a record number of daily Covid-19 infections, AFP reported. The photo was shared more than 2,000 times after it was posted on the Facebook page for Indian politician Rajesh Ranjan on April 19, 2021.
Radical Pakistan party leader misleadingly claims praying at Muslim shrine in the city of Lahore so they can be “healed”from  Covid-19.The claim is misleading: there is no credible evidence that prayer can cure Covid-19. International health experts have previously warned against mass gatherings over fears they could exacerbate the spread of Covid-19.The video was posted  on March 27, 2021 on YouTube. It has been viewed more than 50,000 times. The video shows the leader of the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) party, Saad Hussain Rizvi, criticising measures by the Pakistani government which he claims have negatively affected his party. Speaking in Punjabi, he rhetorically questions the effectiveness of a government-mandated closure of the Data Sahib shrine -- one of the oldest Muslim shrines on the subcontinent -- in the Pakistani city of Lahore due to the coronavirus.
Canola oil, used in meat substitutes, is safe as nutritionists say the oil is not harmful for humans to consume, and it is recognized as safe by US regulators.The video is circulating after Beyond Meat in early 2021 signed partnerships with McDonald’s and Yum! Brands, the parent of KFC and other fast foods, as demand surges for better-tasting meat alternatives. Expeller-pressed canola oil is among the ingredients listed in Beyond Meat products. Canola oil is “generally recognized as safe” by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), a conclusion affirmed by a nutrition specialist at the Mayo Clinic, a nonprofit American medical research and treatment center. In 2018, the FDA said there was credible evidence to support the qualified health claim that consuming oleic acid in canola and other edible oils "may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease.”
Doctored newspaper headline falsely claims Sri Lanka minister played down toxic coconut oil. the photo has been doctored from an unrelated news report that was published months before toxic compounds were detected in a batch of imported coconut oil in Sri Lanka. It purports to show an interview with Sri Lanka Minister of Industries Wimal Weerawansa. The photo circulated online weeks after Sri Lanka authorities confiscated thousands of litres of imported coconut oil that were found to contain a cancer-causing toxin, local media reported on April 1, 2021. It was published on October 25, 2020, months before Sri Lanka authorities confiscated imported coconut oil that were found to contain toxins. In the interview, Weerawansa spoke on a range of issues, including the adoption of the 20th Amendment of the Constitution, a controversial measure passed in October 2020 to expand the powers of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
There is no evidence that putting onions under feet cures cancer or malaria. The fake Facebook post was shared alongside a photo showing what appears to be a raw onion placed underneath a foot and held in place with a sock. The viral claim is similar to an earlier version that circulated on Facebook in Yoruba, a language predominant in Nigeria's southwestern region. “Ways to remove toxins from the body,” the translated title of the earlier Facebook post reads. This post was published on a page called “Omobola Olohunwa Natural and Spiritual Healing,” which promotes traditional medicine on Facebook in Nigeria. While the consumption of onions can be beneficial to human health, according to a 2002 study published in the peer-reviewed scientific journal Phytotherapy Research, there is no scientific evidence that onion foot therapy is an effective treatment for medical ailments. Aside from the global health authority, health professionals have also dismissed the claim as false and lacking medical basis.
The misleading claim wents viral on social media  purport to show a Chinese official promoting antimalarial drug , which they claim is also known as oxytetracycline, as a Covid-19 treatment at a press conference in 2021, While she touted chloroquine phosphate as a Covid treatment, she did not mention oxytetracycline, which is a different drug.  The video was shared in a Facebook post on March 10, 2021.  The video shows a broadcast of a woman speaking at a press conference. The logo of Chinese state-run television broadcaster CCTV is visible in the top-left corner, while the news ticker reads, “Press conference by Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council”. During the video, Sun announces that chloroquine phosphate, a malaria medicine that has been used for “more than 70 years”, is an effective Covid-19 treatment.
Moderna boss did not say 'vaccines change your DNA'. An article shared thousands of times on social media claims that Tal Zaks, the chief medical officer of US pharma firm Moderna, said messenger RNA vaccines can "alter" human DNA. The posts, which circulated online as Moderna's mRNA Covid-19 vaccine was administered to millions of people around the world, claim Zaks made the comments during a TEDx Talk. Zaks did not make the purported comments. Scientists have previously rejected false claims that mRNA vaccines can alter DNA. “Bombshell: Moderna Chief Medical Officer Admits MRNA Alters DNA,” reads the screenshot of an article shared on Twitter on March 20, 2021. The Moderna Covid-19 jab is an mRNA vaccine that uses an inert snippet of genetic code from the coronavirus. It triggers an immune response in the body that can repel the active virus.
Facebook posts misleadingly claim only one politician has died from Covid-19 which is not true .The claim is misleading: at least eight serving and former politicians globally have died of Covid-19, according to an AFP tally. Tanzanian authorities said Magufuli died of a heart condition, while his opponents insisted he contracted the coronavirus before his death. The post circulated online less than three weeks after former Tanzania president John Magufuli died on March 17, 2021. Magufuli has been described as a Covid-19 sceptic who denied the coronavirus existed in his country for a significant portion of the pandemic, AFP reported. Authorities said he died of a heart condition after going missing for several weeks, but political opponents insisted he contracted the virus shortly before his death.The claim, however, is misleading.
Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine are not proven Covid-19 treatments.the claims are false: there is no scientific evidence that either medication can help treat the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Karanja is known for voicing anti-vaccination sentiments. In 2014, he voiced opposition to the tetanus vaccine and also spoke out against the vaccine for cervical cancer in 2019.Scientists are working hard to find treatments and vaccines to help treat and prevent Covid-19, which has killed more than 2.8 million people worldwide since it emerged in Wuhan, China in late 2019.Ivermectin is a medication used to fight various parasitic infections. In the US, ivermectin tablets are prescribed to treat parasitic worms, and creams and lotions are used for conditions like head lice and rosacea. However, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ivermectin to treat or prevent Covid-19.
Facebook posts shared more than 150,000 times claim that California theme park Disneyland banned screaming on its rides. which is false; a Walt Disney Company spokesperson said it does not have such a policy, and there is no mention of it on the park’s official website. Disneyland Park and the neighboring Disney California Adventure Park are to reopen on April 30, 2021 after being closed for more than a year during the Covid-19 pandemic. The false claims that Disneyland would prohibit screaming apparently stemmed from a September 2020 report by the California Attractions and Parks Association (CAPA), which represents theme parks across the state. The report noted the need to mitigate an increased risk of spreading the disease posed by shouting, but did not refer specifically to screaming. 
Social media posts claim that Canadian  Insurance company Manulife will deny life insurance payments to people who have been immunized against Covid-19 because the vaccines are “experimental” , This is false both the firm and the Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association said coverage would not be affected. The claim appears to have originated with a Facebook post from a user named Tracey Wiggins that is no longer publicly available. In the post, she stands by her assertion that a Manulife agent she spoke to on February 26 told her “that this vaccine is experimental, and my life policy would be void if I died from complications,” but also included documents she said the company sent her that refute the claim. Manulife also told AFP the social media claims are “false.” 
 Covid-19 vaccination centre in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta is not open to everyone with an Indonesian ID card so he claim is false on social media. the programme is only open for the elderly and employees of state-run companies who are registered as Jakarta residents.  The claim was posted on Facebook on March 11, 2021. The claim’s lengthy caption talks about a Covid-19 vaccination centre set up at Istora Gelora Bung Karno, a major sports stadium in Jakarta, and says that the programme is jointly run by “Indonesia’s State-Owned Enterprises Ministry, Health Ministry, the Jakarta provincial government and the Indonesia Healthcare Corporation”. The Indonesian State-Owned Enterprises Ministry posted a series of tweets on March 10, 2021, debunking what it called “false information.”
Covid-19 vaccine did not contains ingredients that will cause infertility which would cause a global population decline.  These all are False claim about Covid-19 vaccine circulates online . the drug company does not have its own Covid-19 vaccine, and doctors say such shots could not cause infertility. A video post claims pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline’s Covid-19 vaccine contains ingredients that will cause infertility, and that immunized men can make unvaccinated women sterile, which would cause a global population decline. This is false; the drug company does not have its own Covid-19 vaccine, and doctors say such shots could not cause infertility. Fellows claims that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation provided funding for a researcher to run human trials for the vaccine from Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), and that the shot contains ingredients that will cause sterility in both men and women, with immunized men able to make unvaccinated women infertile through sex.
Facebook and Twitter posts shared tens of thousands of times claim that a wide-ranging $1.9 trillion package for Covid-19 pandemic relief will cost each US citizen $5,750. This is misleading; economists say the cost of the plan cannot be attributed to every American in this way, though they differ on the specifics of what its impact would be. No Republicans voted for the bill, which they criticize for addressing “left-wing priorities” that go beyond the pandemic. The plan comes after two earlier pandemic relief packages during the administration of former president Donald Trump, one worth $900 billion and the earlier CARES Act valued at $2.2 trillion.
Multiple Facebook posts shared repeatedly in March 2021 claim that 50 percent of South Koreans suffer from underlying medical conditions however , there are no official reports to support the claim and the figures cited in the misleading posts are either outdated or inaccurate. The post circulated as South Korea continues to administer Covid-19 vaccines and combat the spread of the virus, as Yonhap News Agency reported here on March 9, 2021. Health officials have long warned that underlying medical conditions increase the risk of severe Covid-19.
A post shared hundreds of times on social media in South Africa claims that inhaling steam from a tea made from guava leaves, eucalyptus and an artemisia variety known as mhlonyane will "kill" the virus that causes Covid-19 but  the World Health Organization WHO does not recommend steam inhalation to treat or prevent Covid-19. Below the caption is a video that shows a man emerging from what appears to be a homemade sauna. Different versions of the claim that steam inhalation can help prevent or treat Covid-19 have been circulating since the start of the pandemic in December 2019. However, experts say there is no scientific evidence to support these claims. Inhaling steam is a traditional remedy used by some communities to treat colds, but there is little evidence that it is effective. The narrator in the video asks the man in Swahili to describe his experience, to which he replies, “sema mvuke”, which loosely translates to “it’s very steamy”.
A clip of a woman convulsing on the ground has  gone viral  alongside a claim that she is suffering from side effects after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine but the patient suffering a seizure at the hospital near Buenos Aires in Argentina . doctors there told AFP that the woman had not been vaccinated against Covid-19.  One Facebook post featuring the video has been shared nearly 470 times in Nigeria and Germany since it was published on February 24, 2021. Versions of the same claim have been circulating in multiple languages, including Romanian, English, French and Czech. AFP Argentina has debunked the claim in Spanish here. AFP Fact Check ran a reverse search on the video using the InVid-WeVerify tool, which led to a Facebook post from February 20, 2021 featuring the same video.
Health experts maintain that using aluminium foil while cooking is generally safe also a WHO spokesperson said they were “not aware of any WHO issued warning about aluminium foil and heating of food". The share of a person's total dietary intake of aluminium from other food sources and water is probably higher than the intake from aluminium containing utensils and foil," the spokesperson said. The EFSA report refutes the suggestion that exposure to aluminium could cause Alzheimer’s disease. A 2017 peer-reviewed study published here in the Environmental Sciences Europe states: “There is no scientific evidence indicating a connection between aluminium uptake from foodstuffs, including drinking water, pharmaceuticals, or cosmetics and Alzheimer’s disease.” “The share of a person's total dietary intake of aluminium from other food sources and water is probably higher than the intake from aluminium containing utensils and foil," the spokesperson said.
Multiple Facebook and Twitter posts shared hundreds of times claim the World Health Organization (WHO) approved Coronil, an Indian herbal medication, as a Covid-19 treatment however the claim is false. while Coronil was approved as a Covid-19 treatment by Indian government regulators, it has not been certified as a coronavirus treatment by the WHO as of February 26, 2021.  The claim that the WHO approved Coronil as a Covid-19 treatment was also made by News Nation TV. One of the Indian broadcaster's network anchors reported here that “a lot of questions were raised whether Coronil is an effective treatment of coronavirus, but WHO has given its approval.”Several other media Indian outlets — including India TV; AsiaNews; Jio News; and News18  also reported that the WHO had approved Coronil as a coronavirus treatment.
A misleading  article claiming that Canadians can be fined $2,500 and face a driving ban if they are caught smoking cigarettes behind the wheel is circulating on Facebook which is not true.  there are no blanket bans on lighting up in private vehicles, although most provinces forbid the practice if a minor is present, in which case the fines are lower than claimed and there is no licence revocation. Although the article is dated from September, Facebook says it was shared at least 6,300 times since February 8, 2021, including by a Facebook page called “Only In Canada,” which has the same logo with and promotes content from the toronto-ontario.news website.The page is among a series of websites which appear to be local Canadian pages but are not, and have been debunked by AFP Fact Check for false claims about fines for using cellphones in a car, food recalls and immigration.
Various images and videos taken from different angles show South African President Cyril Ramaphosa was vaccinated with an exposed needle not a capped needle so the viral claims are not true.  Officials wearing masks watch on as a nurse prepares to jab Ramaphosa in his left arm. The plunger has a visible label attached to it, but no cap covering the needle.Ramaphosa received his jab on February 17, 2021, a historic moment that was captured by several media outlets and broadcast live on multiple web platforms. An AFP photo also shows that the needle was uncovered at the time the shot was administered. The false Facebook post also comments on the fact that the nurse administering the jab is not wearing gloves. But according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the use of gloves for the Covid-19 vaccine is not required unless the person administering the shot has open wounds or might come into contact with potentially infectious bodily fluids.
Multiple posts on Facebook claim that Vietnam has recorded no deaths from Covid-19 due to widespread consumption of hot lemon tea in the population but the claim is false as Vietnam has recorded 35 coronavirus deaths. Health experts said there is "no evidence" that hot lemon tea is an effective Covid-19 treatment.  As of February 22, 2021, Vietnam has recorded 35 Covid-19 deaths, according to data from the country’s Ministry of Health here and the World Health Organization (WHO) .  Hafizah Sobri of Medical Mythbusters Malaysia, a coalition of Malaysian health professionals debunking medical-related myths on social media, told AFP there was "no evidence" hot tea and lemon can treat someone infected with Covid-19. Dr Anuradha P. Radhakrishnan, an infectious disease physician at Selayang Hospital, in the Malaysian town of Batu Caves, told AFP by email on February 22, 2021: “So far there is no home remedy that has reliable efficacy. 
Multiple Facebook posts claim Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s Covid-19 vaccination  broadcast live on national television on February 21, 2021 was faked. The posts claim the doctor who vaccinated Morrison left the cap on the syringe. But the claim is false: the medic used an exposed needle to vaccinate Morrison, photos and video footage of the procedure show. The image in the post shows Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison receiving a vaccination at Castle Hill Medical Centre in Sydney’s northwest.  Morrison was one of the first Australians to receive a Covid-19 vaccine on February 21, 2021, as part of a national vaccination program launch. Video footage and photos of the event clearly show an uncapped needle being inserted into Morrison’s arm. Below is an AFP photo of Morrison's vaccination that shows the exposed needle tip.
A fabricated news report shared repeatedly on Facebook states South Korea's Prime Minister threatened to arrest citizens who refuse to receive a Covid-19 vaccination however the report, however, is not a genuine article from a South Korean media outlet. A spokesperson for the Prime Minister's Secretariat told AFP on February 17, 2021, that he made no such comments about Covid-19 vaccinations. The South Korean media outlet that was imitated in the Facebook posts said it did not publish the purported report. The post shared a screenshot of what misleadingly appears to be a news report published by South Korean daily Financial News on February 14, 2021.  A spokesperson for the South Korean Prime Minister's Secretariat told AFP he made no such comments. In response to the misleading posts, Financial News warned it would take legal action against anyone sharing the hoax report.
Multiple Facebook posts circulating online in February 2021 fake  claim that only people from South Korea have Covid-19 antibodies, citing a South Korean scientific study as evidence. The claim is misleading: according to one of the co-authors of the scientific study published in January 2021, researchers analysed coronavirus antibodies found in Covid-19 patients from the United States and South Korea. The claim surfaced online shortly after South Korea's Seoul National University published new research here on January 27, 2021 about Covid-19 antibodies. It found evidence that coronavirus antibodies exist in healthy people, as well as patients suffering from Covid-19.The researchers said their findings were evidence that Covid-19 antibodies exist in the human body and may provide immunity against the viral infection.
Social media posts and online articles claim face masks, recommended to help curb the spread of Covid-19, cause lung cancer But medical experts say there is no scientific evidence proving a direct link between long-term mask use and cancer. Since the beginning of the pandemic, disinformation about the use of masks has spread worldwide. The World Health Organization, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Health Canada agree that masks are generally safe to use and help to curb the spread of Covid-19, which has infected more than 100 million people, killing nearly 2.4 million globally. A similar claim can be found in an article headlined, “Long-Term Mask Use May Contribute to Advanced Stage Lung Cancer, Study Finds.”
Ocasio-Cortez video did not claim she was in US Capitol during riot . Social media posts and articles in which  Democratic Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez accuse of exaggerating her experience and misleading viewers of an Instagram livestream because she was not in the US Capitol during the January 6, 2021 riot. But the lawmaker did not claim in the video to have been inside the Capitol, and instead made clear that she was at her office -- located in a nearby building -- when the unrest broke out. Ocasio-Cortez has been a regular target of criticism from Republicans and former president Donald Trump. She posted her nearly 90-minute Instagram live video on February 2, beginning with a revelation that she was a sexual assault survivor. “Trauma compounds on each other,” she said.
Facebook posts falsely claim hydroxychloroquine can be homemade as treatment for Covid-19.  The posts go on to claim that hydroxychloroquine is “nothing but quinine”, referring to another anti-malaria medicine.  The claims, however, are false. Medical experts warned the post's purported homemade recipe could pose a danger to people's health. As of February 11, 2021, health authorities in the US, New Zealand and Australia have said they do not endorse hydroxychloroquine as a treatment for Covid-19. Experts also said quinine and hydroxychloroquine are not the same.The Facebook post's caption reads: "There you go, you can take charge of your own health and well being you know. No questionable vaccine necessary."
Multiple Facebook posts shared in February 2021 claim police have detained discredited US researcher Judy Mikovits for "discovering evidence that deadly retroviruses are transmitted through vaccines which is false ,Mikovits has not been arrested in 2021. She was arrested and briefly jailed in 2011 for unlawfully taking data from her former employer, court documents show. The charges against her were dropped in 2012, according to US media reports. A 2009 study she co-authored on retroviruses did not focus on vaccines and was retracted. There are no credible reports that Mikovits has been detained in 2021.
Children of billionaire philanthropists Bill and Melinda Gates have all been vaccinated. His wife Melinda Gates has previously confirmed that their three children have all been vaccinated. The couple's foundation also told AFP Fact that the kids were vaccinated.The claims were repeated in newspaper and website headlines, shown alongside the video.The man in the clip denies the existence of Covid-19 in Nigeria and urges his followers in Igbo -- a language spoken mostly in the country’s southeast region -- to ignore official directives about the disease and the vaccines developed to fight it. Comments made by Gates regarding population have repeatedly been taken out of context.In a 2012 interview available on YouTube, he said that “population is growing the fastest in places where people are less able to deal with it”. One of the ways to manage this growth in countries like Nigeria, Yemen and Niger was by giving women tools to help them and their children live healthier lives, he said.
A YouTube video and social media posts claim a man blowing vape smoke through various face masks shows that they do not help prevent the spread of coronavirus. This is false; experts agree that while the virus itself is small enough to fit through mask fibers  as is vape smoke masks do help stop the much-larger respiratory droplets that carry potentially infectious particles, and multiple studies have indicated that masks reduce transmission of the virus causing Covid-19. The man in the video inhales and exhales through two different surgical masks, a cupped mask, a cloth mask, a mask with filter material and a respirator with a valve.A search using the Florida Department of Health’s medical license verification tool shows that Noel’s license expired in 2014.AFP spoke with several experts to address the claim in the video. Dr John O’Horo, associate professor of medicine and an infectious disease specialist at Mayo Clinic, said the conclusions the man in the video draws are “very, very questionable,” and “what’s being shown there isn’t really representative of the way that masks offer protection for the wearer or for those around the wearer.”
Social media posts falsely claim that coughing vigorously can stop heart attack. A similar fake claim, shared on South Korean social platforms Daum Cafe and Naver Blog, advises people to "keep coughing every two seconds" if they think they are having a heart attack. According to international health experts, who warned the practice could delay life-saving treatment in a health emergency. There is no evidence that coughing vigorously a technique known as “cough CPR” can stop a heart attack, according to the British Heart Foundation (BHF). “There is no medical evidence to support "cough CPR", which suggests you can help yourself by coughing vigorously if you think you’re having a heart attack and are alone,” Christopher Allen, a BHF coronary care specialist, notes .
A post spreading on social media claims that wearing face masks to help stop the spread of Covid-19 will cause children physical and psychological problems. But medical and psychological experts say the claims it makes about masks are false, and the post is part of a larger disinformation campaign. The post includes a link to a globalresearch.ca page, which published this transcript of a German doctor’s claims about masks and their adverse effects. AFP debunked her claims. In August 2020, the US State Department described globalresearch.ca as “deeply enmeshed in Russia’s broader disinformation and propaganda ecosystem” and “a steady source of anti-US and anti-Western disinformation and propaganda.”
A video shared thousands of times on Facebook claims that a tonic made of onions, ginger, garlic, lemon and hot water can cure Covid-19 however ,This is false health professionals, including those at the World Health Organization (WHO), have repeatedly refuted these claims. A video shared more than 4,000 times on Facebook shows a woman dressed in a nursing uniform claiming to have cured  Covid-19 patients using a combination of onions, ginger, garlic, lemon and hot water. The woman says in her introduction she is a nurse in an intensive care unit and is employed by Hanson Grey Agency, a recruitment firm in London. The woman claims the hot water in the mixture will “destroy Covid”, adding she had treated many patients with her concoction and achieved a 100 percent success rate. 
The US National Institutes of Health did not recommend ivermectin to treat Covid-19 patients. A Facebook post misleadingly claiming the anti-parasite drug ivermectin has been “officially recommended” by the NIH to treat Covid-19 in the US has been shared more than 100 times in South Africa.  the NIH confirmed to AFP Fact Check that there is not yet enough data to “recommend either for or against the use of ivermectin for the treatment of Covid-19” in the US. Furthermore, it is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that approves drugs in the US, not the NIH. As is the case with numerous politicians’ pages in South Africa, the widely-followed Facebook account in Mentor's name has not been verified with a blue tick. Multiple attempts to confirm with Mentor that it indeed belongs to her have gone unanswered.
A YouTube video shared hundreds of times has resurfaced with an old claim that two children in Guinea died after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine which is not true.  the video was based on a news report about Guinean children who fell ill in March 2019 after taking anti-parasite drugs. AFP Fact Check previously debunked this claim in May 2020, months before any Covid-19 vaccine contenders had been approved.When this false claim first circulated in April 2020 , Covid-19 vaccines were still in the early phases of development and none had been approved. There are now several vaccines being administered around the world following a host of clinical trials. By running a reverse image search, AFP Fact Check traced the footage used in the YouTube video to an online report in French from March 2019, which had the headline: “Guinea: a vaccination campaign goes wrong.”
Fake news reports claim Pakistani government hired former army general to head medical regulatory bod.  The page's profile picture is identical to the logo of major Pakistani English-language newspaper Dawn, The post circulated as the current government led by Prime Minister Imran Khan faces criticism for appointing senior army officials to top civilian jobs. The claim was published on January 21, 2021 a Facebook page called “Vocabulary and Dawn News’ Informative Articles”, which has more than 50,000 followers. The page's profile picture is identical to the logo of major Pakistani English-language newspaper Dawn. The post circulated as the current government led by Prime Minister Imran Khan faces criticism for appointing senior army officials to top civilian jobs.
Multiple Facebook posts claim the World Health Organization (WHO) ranked Sri Lanka fifth in a table of countries' responses to the coronavirus pandemic however the claim is false the WHO said it had not created any such ranking system.  The post features the World Health Organization’s logo, as well as images of Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Army Commander General Shavendra Silva.  "6.9 million people" is in reference to the number of votes secured by President Rajapaksa in the 2019 election that saw him win a comfortable victory. Twenty million refers to the Sri Lankan population, which presently stands at more than 21,480,000. In response to the misleading posts, the WHO said that no ranking or comparison of the pandemic responses by different countries had been carried out. 
A video viewed tens of thousands of times on Facebook purports to show Indonesia’s top officials “dancing without obeying health protocols” during the pandemic however the claim is false; the video was filmed in January 2020, weeks before Indonesia announced its first Covid-19 case. It shows a group of people dancing, including Indonesia’s Social Affairs Minister Tri Rismaharini and Chief Security Minister Mahfud MD, while Home Affairs Minister Tito Karnavian is seen singing. The post’s Indonesian-language caption translates to English as: “They gleefully dance without obeying health protocols. Meanwhile, citizens have been left to live in fear, prohibited from gathering in public, ordered to maintain social distancing, wear face masks and wash hands.” A Google reverse image search using keyframes extracted from the video with the InVid-WeVerify tool, found the footage was previously posted here on a YouTube channel of Indonesia’s news agency Antara on February 3, 2020. 
 Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine is  not “poison” and dangerous  as  the coronavirus vaccine was tested for safety in clinical trials, and medical experts say the minimal amount of potassium chloride used in the shot will not harm recipients. A December 18, 2020 tweet, also calling the vaccine “poison,” includes an image of the product information for the Pfizer-BioNTech shot along with the text, “Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine comes with potassium chloride - the same drug used for executions of death row inmates!” . It was also shared hundreds of times on Facebook as the United States and Canada approved the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use in December amid rising numbers of coronavirus infections. 
Korean social media posts falsely claim that hydroxychloroquine cures Covid-19 after South Korea sees surge in confirmed cases. the Korean Pharmacists for Democratic Society told AFP that hydroxychloroquine cannot cure Covid-19. As of January 5, 2021, multiple international studies have found the antimalarial drug to be ineffective against the virus.As of January 5, 2021, South Korea had recorded 64,979 cases of Covid-19 and 1,007 deaths. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases has surged since mid-December, as reported here by AFP.  In the early months of the coronavirus pandemic, hydroxychloroquine was touted as a possible medication that could prevent or cure Covid-19. Multiple studies, however, later showed no major benefits of using hydroxychloroquine, as AFP reported here on May 22, 2020. 
Doctored video shared alongside false claim that Filipino official 'beat man for violating coronavirus restrictions'. The clip has been doctored to include a Tagalog-language audio track. The original video has circulated in unrelated reports about police violence in Colombia.The video shows a man being violently assaulted. Tagalog-language profanities can be heard in the background. Wearing plastic shields on top of face masks was made mandatory in public places in the Philippines on December 15, 2020 as part of government regulations to curb coronavirus infections. Reverse image searches of the video’s keyframes through InVID-WeVerify, a digital verification tool, followed by keyword searches on Google, found the video corresponds to this news report posted on December 3, 2020 by Semana, a news organisation in Colombia.
The Association of Korean Medicine said there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that drinking pepper stem tea can prevent or cure Covid-19. As of December 31, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said there is no known medically proven cure for Covid-19. In December 2020, some countries began vaccination campaigns against the disease.Part of the Korean-lanauge text in the post translates to English as: "Effective medicine to cure Coronavirus. Full recovery guaranteed within two or three days."You can easily prevent Covid-19, and you can 100% cure coronavirus with this method.Kim Gye-jin, a director at the Association of Korean Medicine, a representative group for Korean Medicine Doctors in the country, told AFP there is no scientific evidence to support the claim.“There are no significant records to show that pepper stems were used to prevent or cure the common cold or flu, and certainly, there are no medical grounds to show that pepper stems are effective in preventing or curing Covid-19,” he said in a phone interview on December 28, 2020.
This video shares a misleading claim from an Austrian politician that 'Coca-Cola tested positive for Covid-19'.  experts told AFP the test carried out by the politician in the clip was not performed correctly. In response to the misleading claim, the manufacturer of the rapid antigen test said the same test actually returned a negative result for Coca-Cola when performed correctly. The video was published in this Instagram post on December 12, 2020. It has been viewed more than 9,000 times.Austria has been using rapid antigen tests as part of a mass testing drive for the novel coronavirus, as noted in this report by AFP. Professor Peter Collignon, an infectious diseases physician and microbiologist at Canberra Hospital and the Australian National University, told AFP that conducting such a test incorrectly could yield invalid results.
vaccines send genetic instructions to the body, these disappear quickly and do not alter your DNA.“The so-called mRNA vaccines of the latest generation intervene directly in the genetic material of the patient and therefore alter his individual genetic material, which represents genetic manipulation,” it claims The same text has circulated on Facebook around the world, including Britain, South Africa and the US, while posts in France allege vaccines risk “permanently transforming our genes” and “passing these genetic modifications on to our children”. While the text is attributed to prominent anti-vaccine campaigner Robert F. Kennedy Jr, a near-identical post has been pinned on “German naturopath Anette Lillinger”. Contacted by AFP Fact Check, Lillinger said she did not write the text.
Independent medical experts and Pfizer said no sterilization was documented during clinical trials on female, and the researcher’s LinkedIn profile says he has not worked at the American pharmaceutical company since 2011.The article cites former Pfizer researcher Michael Yeadon whose LinkedIn profile says he left Pfizer, where he worked on allergy and respiratory research, in 2011 eight years before the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Yeadon claims that the Covid-19 vaccine, which was first administered to the public on December 8, would train the immune system to attack a protein involved in placenta formation, syncytin-1, leading to infertility for women.This is not how the messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) vaccine, developed in cooperation with the German company BioNTech, works, according to Dasantila Golemi-Kotra, an associate professor in microbiology at York University.
The images circulated online in November 2020, as countries around the world raced to procure Covid-19 vaccines however the claim is false; the photos show doctors, accompanied by military personnel, vaccinating people against diphtheria in Peru. The claim was circulated online after Malaysia signed an agreement to be given priority access to a China-made Covid-19 vaccine, while Indonesia secured a committment to obtain 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from a UK-based pharmaceuticals company, in addition to other deals with Chinese pharmaceuticals firms. A reverse image search on Google found the photos were posted on the official Facebook account of the Peruvian Health Ministry here on October 28, 2020. Two of the same pictures were also uploaded to the ministry’s official Twitter account here on the same day.
Multiple experts say the Covid-19 vaccine that requires storage at extremely cold temperatures cannot alter human genomes.While it’s unclear which vaccine the claim is referring to, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech requires storage temperatures between -70°C and -80°C. The vaccine, which the companies say has an efficacy rate of over 90%, is a Messenger RNA-based vaccine that uses genetic material, not viral proteins, to trigger an immune response. However, the Facebook post’s claim that the vaccine can “transfer genetic material” and is a “genetic manipulation of humans” is false, according to experts.  “The reason is because our genome is made of DNA and this genetic material is not DNA, but RNA -- and a rule of biology is that an RNA cannot insert itself into a DNA genome,” she explained.
Facebook posts make misleading claim that 220,000 coronavirus fatalities in US were caused by other medical conditions.The CDC data referenced in the posts has been presented in a misleading context; the data shows medical conditions that may have contributed to the deaths of people infected with Covid-19, as well as co-morbidities such as pneumonia that were caused by Covid-19. The numbers used in the post appear to have been taken from this CDC data table published on October 21. It is labelled: “Conditions contributing to deaths involving coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)”.The data in the table was compiled by the US National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), which has been tracking the deaths associated with Covid-19 and providing updates on the CDC website. 
German neurologist have been shared on Facebook making several false  claims about the alleged dangers of wearing face masks, notably that rebreathing oxygen in the mask leads to neurological damage. According to experts, this is false, since these masks allow fresh air to pass through and oxygen to be inhaled.AFP Fact Check’s reporters in Germany first debunked the 20-minute German-language video by neurologist Margareta Griesz-Brisson after it was shared more than 30,000 times on Facebook. The earliest German-language posts that AFP Fact Check found are from September 25, 2020, on YouTube and Facebook. Since then, the video has been circulating widely on Facebook and Instagram. 
Misleading claim spreads online that majority of sanitary towels in South Korea contain cancer-causing chemicals. The claim, however, is misleading; the data cited in the misleading posts refer to a 2017 government report that concluded only traces of such chemicals were found and that they were insufficient to pose any health risks; South Korea's Ministry of Food and Drug Safety told AFP that annual safety tests have consistently found that “all” sanitary towels in South Korea are “safe to use”. The claim was published on a Naver Cafe with some 38,000 members on October 20, 2020. It has since been viewed almost 800 times.The post then lists several brands of sanitary towels that have purportedly been labelled “safe”.
Misleading claim circulates online that excessive soybean consumption can increase risk of Parkinson’s disease. The claim is misleading; health experts told AFP there is insufficient scientific evidence that consuming soybeans can negatively affect the health of a person's brain; in response to the misleading posts, Thailand’s Food and Drug Administration said the claim was "incorrect".“Why? This is because eating products made from soybeans, such as tofu, can increase the risk of memory loss, resulting in Parkinson’s disease.”
 An Instagram post dated October 12, 2020 claims that Donald Trump died from Covid-19 however This is false; the US president appeared on an NBC town hall on October 15. A search of CNN’s Twitter  account did not reveal any such tweet, and Trump appeared in the NBC town hall days after the claim appeared online.
Drinking lots of water or gargling warm water mixed with salt and vinegar remedy cannot prevent novel coronavirus infection. The claim was shared alongside an image that shows a World Health Organization (WHO) logo. The claim is false; no international health body, including the WHO, has issued such guidance about Covid-19.  The claim was published here on Instagram on October 8, 2020. It has since been deleted.  The image shows a logo for the WHO alongside a stock photo of two scientists.  “Share this message as much as possible and help save many lives. It is your duty and responsibility to safeguard yourself, your home, your city and your country. ” The claim is false.
medical experts say that paracetamol-based pain relievers are generally not addictive.The  viral claim on social media is misleading.The claim was published on Facebook on August 25, 2020. It was shared more than 23,000 times. “Don't have time to eat Panadol, if you can avoid it, avoid eating painkiller / Panadol. Panadol is a brand of paracetamol-based pain reliever produced by British multinational pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). Muhammad Azmi Abdul Wahab, chief assistant director of the Pharmacy Policy & Strategic Planning Division from the Pharmaceutical Services Programme of the Ministry of Health Malaysia (KKM) said patients should take paracetamol according to the "recommended daily dose" and seek medical attention if their symptoms do not subside. 
False claim circulates on Facebook in Myanmar that chewing betel quid can prevent Covid-19 infection. The claim is false, health experts say; representatives for Myanmar’s Ministry of Health and Sport and the European Food Safety Authority both separately told AFP that the claim was not true. The claim was published on Facebook on March 30, 2020. It has been shared 34,000 times. The Burmese-language post translates to English, in part, as: “Well, to all brothers who chew betel quid, you can be happy now. Slaked lime, Ca(OH)2, the alkali in betel quid, can destroy the fat layer of coronavirus and kill the virus because the virus is coated with a fat layer. If the virus enters the mouth of someone eating betel quid, it will die because of the slaked lime. According to statements (ed: the post didn’t mention which statements or who released them), the virus infection stopped in Wuhan, China after lime (ed: didn’t mention what kind of lime; slaked lime or hydraulic lime) was sprayed across the city. The current (Covid-19) positive patients are those who don’t eat betel quid and infection rates in Myanmar are low because of betel quid.”



A video viewed thousands of times on Facebookv misleadingly claims that billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates admitted to making $200 billion from his charitable foundation’s investment in vaccines which is not true. The 26-second clip has been cut from a longer TV interview, where Gates estimated the global social and economic benefits from his foundation’s $10 billion investment. An official at the US think tank that calculated the $200 billion return on investment told AFP Fact Check that the claim was “an incorrect interpretation of the analysis”.The video is an extract from an interview Gates gave to CNBC journalist Becky Quick on January 23, 2019, in which he discussed the economic benefits of boosting vaccination rates. However, 16 seconds into the video, there is a cut creating a disconnect in Gate’s speech.
Medical experts say having a dry throat 'does not increase the risk' of infection. The viral claims are false; the Thai Public Health Ministry denies it has ever issued such advice; medical experts say dry throat does not increase the risk of infection.  Translated to English, the post’s lengthy Thai text partly reads:  “Ministry of Health warned that this influenza is very serious.Dr. Suthat Chotanapan, director of the Bureau of Risk Communication and Health Behavior Development for the Ministry of Public Health, told AFP on September 15, 2020, that the ministry “has never announced this”. Having a dry throat “is irrelevant” to how humans are infected with germs, Dr. Thira Woratanarat, associate professor of the Department of Preventive and Social Medicine at Chulalongkorn University, also told AFP via telephone on September 15, 2020. 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test used to diagnose novel coronavirus are not “fake”  and shared misleadingly on social media platforms. The posts cite the Swiss public health authority Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH) and Swissmedic, the national supervisory body for medical products, as the source. The claim, however, is false; the posts have taken excerpts of the Swissmedic report out of context; the actual report gives weight to the efficacy of the PCR tests in detecting novel coronavirus.The posts were published alongside screenshots of a German-language document bearing the Swissmedic logo, dated May 20, 2020. Polymerase chain reaction test, also known as PCR test, is a diagnostic test used by many health authorities worldwide to detect coronavirus infections. They detect disease by looking for traces of the virus from samples collected from the suspected patient. 
Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear did not attended the 2020 edition of the state’s famous horse race, and also  wear a mask for protection during the Covid-19 pandemic. The viral claims are false; the 2020 Kentucky Derby took place without spectators except for necessary staff, and the photo illustrating the claims dates from 2017. Because of the pandemic, US racing's most prestigious event was held not on the traditional first Saturday in May but on the first Saturday of September. After social distancing was recommended for everyone in Kentucky in March, the state is gradually reopening process, with some fitness centers, parks, bars and restaurants functioning at a diminished capacity and under strict guidelines. 
International health experts refute claim that coronavirus death rate is lower than that of the flu.The claim is false; available evidence from multiple expert sources show the Covid-19 death rate is higher than the flu’s death rate.The claim was made in a graphic published on Facebook on August 29, 2020. The post has been shared more than 200 times since.The claim is false, according to multiple international health experts. “Doctors and scientists are working to estimate the mortality rate of COVID-19, but at present, it is thought to be substantially higher (possibly 10 times or more) than that of most strains of the flu,” Dr. Lisa Maragakis, senior director of infection prevention at Johns Hopkins University, said in a September 2020 report here.
A misleading video purporting to be from an Indian hospital alleges you can find out if you have COVID-19 by simply holding your breath which is not true. But the claim is false; the WHO and a pulmonologist told AFP Fact Check that the technique cannot diagnose the illness caused by the novel coronavirus. The Indian hospital mentioned in the post has also denied any link to the video. The clip, which has drawn thousands of views including in India and Africa, alleges that the test involves holding your breath as a red dot moves from one point of a square to another.The World Health Organization (WHO) told AFP Fact Check that the technique “does not tell you if you have COVID-19”. Dr Peter Waweru, a pulmonologist in Nairobi, Kenya, also dismissed the claim, noting that a breathing test is not reliable when testing the presence or absence of the virus that causes COVID-19.
A video has been viewed thousands of times on Facebook alongside with a false claim that it shows Russian healthcare workers celebrating new vaccine but in real  the video shows medical staff celebrating the closures of isolation rooms at King Saud Medical City in Saudi Arabia. On August 11, 2020, President Vladimir Putin declared Russia the first country to approve a coronavirus vaccine, AFP reported . A reverse image search on Google led to this video posted on Twitter on August 11, 2020. It was posted by Dr. Khaled Al-Dahmashi, director of King Saud Medical City hospital, in Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia.Translated to English, the Arabic-language tweet says: “The joy of the medical and nursing staff at King Saud Medical City #AlShumaisi by closing the isolation wards designated for #Covid19 in the General Hospital, after a significant decline in the number of injuries and an increase in the rate of recovery, praise be to God.”
The photo which went  viral online shows a music festival in Germany not a Rally against coronavirus restrictions. The image was published in this Facebook post on August 30, 2020.The German text overlay on the image translates to English as: “4 million people in Berlin”. The posts circulated online just one day after thousands gathered in Berlin to protest against coronavirus restrictions on August 31, 2020. Some 18,000 people gathered at Berlin Brandenburg Gate, before the rally was forced to stop due to a police injunction because many were not respecting social distancing measures, as reported here by AFP.A reverse image search on Google found an identical photo published here on the website for the Nineties Berlin museum. The article describes an exhibit commemorating the 30th anniversary of Love Parade, a music festival hosted in Berlin.
Misleading claim circulates online that drinking coffee with lime can relieve migraines. The claim is misleading; health experts told AFP that while coffee may temporarily alleviate pain, combining it with lime could actually worsen headaches; Thailand’s Department of Health advised people suffering from headaches to consult a doctor instead of using home remedies.The post's Thai-language caption translates to English as: “If you frequently get headaches and it doesn’t go away, try drinking black coffee mixed with lime. The result positively impacts the body.” The post includes a link to this report published by Herbtrick, a Thailand-based health and lifestyle blog, on August 28, 2019.
The World Health Organization has not been kicked out of Tanzania. The claim is false; there is no evidence of any such directive and a WHO representative in Tanzania confirmed that the office is still operational. The article has attracted more than 15,000 interactions on Facebook, according to the social media monitoring tool CrowdTangle. “With the rise in false Coronavirus cases, the Tanzanian President John Magufuli, growing suspicious of the World Health Organization (WHO), decided to investigate the claims himself,” reads the article. “He sent the WHO samples of a goat, a papaya and a quail for testing. After all 3 samples came COVID-19 positive, the President is reported to have kicked out the WHO from the country.”
This photo was taken in China almost ten years before the novel coronavirus pandemic not in 2020 so the viral claim is false. The text superimposed on the image states: "Government dignitaries paying their respects to people working behind the scene to keep Japan safe from Covid19." As of August 12, 2020, more than 20 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and some 740,000 deaths have been reported, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  A combined reverse image and keyword searches on Google found an identical photo published in a photo gallery on Chinese-language site news.163.com on January 5, 2011. ORANS is a company that manufactures bathroom products, according to its website. The photo in the news.163.com report shows a gate similar to the one seen in this photo geotagged on Baidu Maps to the ORANS facility in Taizhou city. 
Misleading claim circulates online about New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's visit to Hindu temple.  The claim is misleading. Keyword and reverse image searches found that the footage shows Ardern visiting the Hindu temple in the city of Auckland on August 6, 2020. Three days later, on August 9, New Zealand announced that it had been 100 days since it had recorded a single COVID-19 case that “was acquired locally from an unknown source,” the Ministry of Health declared . 
An image has been shared in multiple posts on Facebook in Malaysia alongside with a false  claim that people in Saudi Arabia are aiming infrared thermometers at people’s hands rather than their foreheads because “laser light” can damage the brain and can cause cancer which is not true . The claim circulated as governments around the world recommended temperature checks as part of efforts to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus. The claim is false; health authorities have said infrared thermometers can safely be pointed at a person's head; the image in the misleading posts has been taken from a photo gallery which also shows officials in Saudi Arabia pointing infrared thermometers at people's heads. Because it is feared the brain can be affected if it is ‘always shot on’ by laser. Avoid being shot.  The claim, however, is false. Health authorities say infrared thermometers are safe.
False claim circulates on Facebook that people cannot catch COVID-19 from infected people or contaminated surfaces. The posts also claim that people cannot become infected by touching contaminated surfaces. The claims are false; international health authorities say COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person and by touching contaminated surfaces.The post goes on to state “Research alternative views, knowledge & information” and lists a number of purported doctors. The post circulated during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. As of August 12, the virus that causes COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, has infected more than 20 million people and killed an estimated 738,000, according to Johns Hopkins University. The claims, however, are false.
False news circulates online that vaccines have caused deaths in the Philippines.  The claim is false; the Tarlac City government and the Philippine Department of Health said the claim was “fake”; the World Health Organization (WHO) said the polio vaccine that was administered across the Philippines in August 2020 was safe.The post circulated within weeks of the Philippines resuming its polio vaccination campaign in late July. Vaccinations were halted earlier in 2020 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. As part of the campaign, health officials in Tarlac City, which is about 130 kilometers north of the capital Manila, conducted house-to-house visits to administer the vaccine, according to this local report on August 6, 2020.
Large studies in British Columbia and the US found no evidence that the flu vaccine increases the risk of contracting a coronavirus, and health officials throughout North America recommend the flu vaccine for children during the COVID-19 pandemic.Several posts claim the evidence came from “The British Medical Journal,” sharing this link. However, that is not a scientific study, but rather a response to an article about the COVID-19 pandemic from a retired pediatrician.BMJ executive editor Theodora Bloom explained in an email that “Rapid responses” are comments to the editors that appear on the journal’s website but “are not indexed in PubMed and they are not journal articles.”  “Although we moderate Rapid Responses to ensure they are not libellous, for example, they are certainly not endorsed by the publication,” she said.
The claim is misleading: the video is old and predates France’s ban on hydroxychloroquine as a prescription drug for COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus.The video by right-wing national cable network One America News Network (OANN) was shared more than 750 times on Facebook in South Africa here and here in late July 2020. The broadcaster counts US President Donald Trump among its fans. It also makes reference to Stella Immanuel, a doctor who announced on July 27, 2020, that she had successfully treated more than 350 COVID-19 patients with hydroxychloroquine. A video of her press conference, filmed on the steps of Capitol Hill, went viral and was shared by Trump.  AFP has traced the earliest version of the OANN video to April 2, 2020. It was shared in this tweet of a YouTube video that has since been deleted for violating YouTube’s Community Guidelines. 
False claim circulates online that the United States is testing a COVID-19 vaccine on Ukrainian soldiers.The claim, published in several languages across different posts, was attributed to a police spokesperson in the self-proclaimed Lugansk People's Republic. The claim is false; Ukraine military and Kharkiv medical officials said the posts were “fake news”. The claim was published on July 27, 2020, on an Australia-based anti-vaccination Facebook page with thousands of followers. The Facebook post's lengthy caption states in part: “LUGANSK, July 17 (Lugansk Media Centre) – Four Ukrainian service members died after COVID-19 vaccine trials, said LPR People's Militia press service officer Alexander Mazeikin.
There is no evidence that black garlic can prevent cancer, health experts say.The claim is misleading; health experts say there is insufficient scientific evidence that black garlic can prevent cancer; Thailand’s National Cancer Institute warns that excessive consumption of black garlic can result in unwanted side effects.Black garlic is the process of fermenting garlic in the temperature of 60-90 degree celsius for at least one month until the garlic turns dark, according to this report published by Thailand’s Mahidol University.Dr. Suebpong Tanasanvimon, an oncology specialist at Chulalongkorn University told AFP there are “no studies which state that eating [black garlic] can prevent” cancer. During a phone conversation on July 30, he said: "I've never heard of this. There are no clear studies which state that eating a specific thing can prevent you from cancer.
The claims are false; pulmonologists say wearing a face mask does not put you at risk of developing pleurisy, nor does it deprive users of adequate oxygen or cause a surge in carbon dioxide levels.A purported screenshot included in the Facebook post claims a 19-year-old woman contracted after wearing a face mask for eight hours a day, five or six days a week. “They basically tell her… it's because she has been wearing a mask for over 8 hours a day 5-6 days a week. Breathing in her own bacteria. Carbon dioxide Caused an infection.” The post circulated as governments worldwide continue to recommend or mandate the wearing of face masks in an attempt to limit the spread of COVID-19. 
These claims are false and both the Greek Orthodox and Catholic Archdioceses of Toronto have worked with health authorities to ensure communion could continue safely and not be banned. In March, places of worship in Toronto were instructed by the Province of Ontario to close in response to the coronavirus pandemic which saw 15,377 confirmed cases and 1,150 deaths in the city.They were allowed to reopen at 30 percent capacity when the city entered stage 2 of reopening on June 24.Holy communion was not banned and was not singled out from other faith practices in the public health suspension. “For the period between June 12 to July 3, 2020, the churches dispersed Holy Communion normally until one or more persons... complained to the government authorities in Canada that the Greek Orthodox Churches are giving Holy Communion with a common spoon,” Archbishop Sotirios of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese said in a press release shared with AFP.
The most recent versions of the post claim that more than 1.6 million people have died from COVID-19, but this is false; the real number of deaths counted is currently less than half of that.“Covid 19 has killed over 1.6million people around the world But, God kept you alive. Just use 10seconds to ‘THANK GOD’ (sic),” reads the text embedded in the image, which was reposted in numerous Facebook posts in Nigeria and Ghana. The claim had circulated online with the same tally weeks earlier in different posts published across the world, including this one shared in Burundi on June 25, 2020.Using the social media monitoring tool CrowdTangle, AFP Fact Check discovered an even earlier version of the claim in a Facebook post shared on May 31, 2020, in the Philippines.“COVID has killed 500k+ people in the world and you are alive.dont forget to thank God (sic),” reads the post. At the time, the death toll from COVID-19 was about 370,000. 
COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, has infected at least 16 million people worldwide, causing more than 646,000 deaths, according to the WHO. The first major outbreak of the disease was in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. Supriya Bezbaruah, the regional WHO representative for India said the claim was “fake news”. In a text message to AFP on July 27, 2020, she said: “This is fake news and WHO has not approved any such home remedy to cure COVID-19.”Similarly, the WHO’s website also states: “While some Western, traditional or home remedies may provide comfort and alleviate symptoms of mild COVID-19, there are no medicines that have been shown to prevent or cure the disease. WHO does not recommend self-medication with any medicines, including antibiotics, as a prevention or cure for COVID-19.”
The claim is misleading; a WHO spokesperson told AFP they have published no such statement; in July 2020, experts said there was “little evidence” that animals especially cats and dogs can transmit the virus to humans, but there was some evidence of human-to-animal transmission. The claim was published on Facebook on July 19, 2020. It has been shared more than 300 times. The post features a photo of a cat, and a traditional Chinese text overlay which translates to English as: “The World Health Organization officially states: Cats and dogs lack ACE2 within their bodies, which makes no way for it to bind with COVID-19 strain's S protein, so cats and dogs will not become organisms carrying COVID-19. Please share if you care, my friends, in case cats and dogs are abandoned for misinformation.”
A viral video purports to show mourners ignoring social distancing rules at the funeral of Zindzi Mandela, the youngest daughter of South Africa's first black president and anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela But the claim is false. police confirmed this clip and other similar videos showed footage of an unrelated funeral, which is being investigated for breaking coronavirus laws. A now-deleted Facebook post shared more than 5,000 times shows a video panning across a large group of people dressed in black.It alleged that the footage was taken at the funeral of career diplomat Zindzi Mandela who died on July 13, 2020.Mandela, who was South Africa's ambassador to Denmark at the time of her death, was buried in a private ceremony on July 17, 2020, as AFP reported . State broadcaster SABC filmed live for more than two hours outside Mandela’s funeral. The live broadcast shows a modest gathering of people all wearing face masks, unlike those amassed in the footage shared in the misleading videos shared on Facebook.
South Dakota does not have the lowest coronavirus rate in the US.This is misleading; cases in the prairie state surpassed the rate claimed in the post months earlier, though it has managed to keep its unemployment rate relatively low compared to most states.The claim has circulated since at least May 21, 2020, when Facebook groups were springing up to call for an end to widespread lockdowns in the United States that shut non-essential businesses in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus, but caused 20.5 million job losses in April alone. The coronavirus pandemic has claimed more than 140,000 lives in the US. After a surge particularly in the south and west, the number of new daily cases now far exceeds those at the time the initial business closures occurred, prompting California to shutter bars and some other businesses again, while other jurisdictions look at similar rollbacks.
Health experts say there is no scientific evidence that budesonide can cure or treat COVID-19; the Philippine health department dismissed the claim as "fake news" and warned the steroid should only be used with a doctor’s prescription.The claim was shared in Facebook post on July 13, 2020.  The post links to a 31-minute YouTube interview with a man identified as Dr. Richard Bartlett, a US doctor who touts budesonide as a COVID-19 treatment and cites anecdotal evidence. Budesonide is a steroid inhaler used to prevent breathing difficulty, chest tightness, wheezing and coughing caused by asthma. “Du30” is a stylised way of writing the last name of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. “HCQ” refers to hydroxychloroquine, a drug that was previously tested as a potential COVID-19 treatment. The World Health Organization (WHO) discontinued trials in July after it was determined that hydroxychloroquine had minimal positive effects.
Photo shows Obama and Fauci visiting a lab in the US, not China.But the photo was actually taken the previous year at a lab in Maryland, and Gates does not appear in it.Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a member of the coronavirus task force, has been increasingly drawn into conflict with President Donald Trump, and is a popular target for disinformation. Bill Gates and his wife, Melinda, leading voices on the push for a vaccine to combat COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, have also been the target of multiple conspiracy theories during the crisis. A reverse image search for the photo reveals that it was first published on US National Institutes of Health NIAID’s Flickr account on December 2, 2014. It was also published the same day on NIH director Francis Collins’ blog. 
No banning order issued ending the use of face masks in Tanzania.According to the piece, which has received thousands of interactions on Facebook, the order was issued by Tanzanian President John Pombe Magufuli. However, this claim is false; no such order was issued, and a government spokesperson has urged citizens to observe guidelines issued by experts to safeguard against COVID-19.An article headlined “African Country Bans Face Masks – Also Reopen Schools And Shops” was published on a site called Reporting the News on May 27, 2020. According to data from the social media monitoring tool CrowdTangle, it garnered more than 187,000 Facebook interactions, including more than 27,000 shares. A similar article titled “Kwaheri Corona (Goodbye Corona): Magufuli bans use of face masks in Tanzania” was published two days earlier on this Kenyan website. The two sites quoted a letter allegedly issued to the press by President John Magufuli’s office.
Multiple posts shared on Facebook claim that the World Health Organization (WHO) has rescinded its advice which urges isolation for COVID-19 patients and social distancing in public , However, the claim is false and based on a video clip that has been taken out of context. WHO still recommends infected people with coronavirus quarantined and social distancing maintained. The screenshot of a tweet since removed by Twitter has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook in Canada and South Africa.  The posts share footage from a news segment on US news and talk cable channel Newsmax where reporter Greg Kelly and doctor David Samadi discussed a brief clip featuring WHO’s leading technical expert on COVID-19, Maria Van Kerkhove, speaking about the asymptomatic transmission of the virus. Kelly and Samadi interpreted this as the WHO saying asymptomatic people cannot transmit coronavirus to others, inferring then that there is no need for social distancing and masks.
There is no evidence that 'snake grass' can kill cancer cells, experts say.The claim is misleading.The post, which features three photos of plants, is captioned: “TO THOSE WHO ARE SICK AND NEED THIS MEDICINAL PLANT.. SERPENTINA OR SNAKE GRASS… IT’S ON HAND.. IT’S CHEAP”. "Snake grass" is a medicinal plant endemic in several Asian countries. According to this 2016 study, it has traditionally been used to treat “skin rashes, insects and snake bites, lesions caused by herpes simplex virus, diabetes, and gout”. “There are no scientific studies pointing to efficacy of snake grass for cancer treatment,” Dr. Rachel Rosario, executive director of the Philippine Cancer Society, told AFP via phone on July 13, 2020. Dr. Necy Juat, a fellow at the Philippine Society of Medical Oncology, also denied the claims, but added: “As an oncologist, do I stop the patient from taking any herbal medicine? No... If they want. we do complementary medicine alongside herbal."
A video has been viewed more than 1.7 million times on Facebook alongside a claim Hong Kong actor Jackie Chan is offering cash handouts to people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic however , The claim is false. the video has been created using two separate clips which do not state that Chan is offering donations to those affected by COVID-19; the first clip was originally published on Chan's official Facebook account in April 2020; the second clip was taken from a 2017 post on the Instagram page of US boxer Floyd Mayweather. The video was published  on Facebook on July 7, 2020. It has been viewed more than 1.7 million times and shared 54,000 times. The 42-second clip is a split screen video that features Chan speaking on the left, and stacks of British and euro banknotes on the right.A reverse Google Image search with keyframes extracted from the footage in the misleading posts found a longer version of the video published here on Jackie Chan’s official Facebook page on April 3, 2020.
The claim is false; several health experts warn consuming baking soda could be harmful to human health; the hoax has circulated online in Thailand since at least 2018.The text superimposed in the image in the post reads: Exercise with more stamina! Baking soda, Amount usage 0.4:1. Thailand’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) published this infographic on Facebook on April 28, 2020, saying the claim is “incorrect”.“The reason why you can’t exercise for so long is because of muscle pain which is caused by lactic acid that happens in the muscle areas. However, the baking soda that you take can’t be absorbed into the muscles.”It discourages people from consuming baking soda, listing possible side effects: “Side effects that might happen when eating baking soda: stomach, bloating, nauseation."
Social media posts falsely  claim that top US infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci is married to Christine Maxwell, whose sister Ghislaine faces sex trafficking charges related to disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein. This is false; Fauci’s wife is Christine Grady, who bears a slight physical resemblance to Maxwell but is a different person. Several other online users made similar claims on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. It also appeared in a fake fact-checking article, but none of them provided evidence beyond a suggestion of physical resemblance between the two women. The claims aim to associate Fauci -- the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a member of the coronavirus task force -- with sex trafficking allegedly perpetrated by Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell. Fauci, who has advised American presidents for decades and led US government efforts to counter diseases including HIV/AIDS, is sometimes perceived as disagreeing with Donald Trump and has been strongly criticized by some of the president’s supporters. 
This is misleading; Whole Foods said on Twitter it accepts cash, but some locations divide lanes between cash and cashless payments to make the process easier and safer for customers.The novel coronavirus pandemic brought growing concerns of transmission through banknotes. But according to a BIS Bulletin from the Bank for International Settlements, evidence suggests that the risk of a spread through cash payments is low when compared with other frequently-touched objects. The company said that, as of April 20, some stores designated cash and cashless lanes “as an added safety measure and to make the checkout process easier for customers.” Whole Foods stores still accept cash, it added. 
This is false; health experts said the vaccine Hepatitis B safely prevents the virus from infecting newborns, eliminating the risk of chronic disease, and confirmed that the amount of aluminum contained in the shot is less than what is ingested by a newborn from breastmilk or formula. “Developed for heroin addicts & prostitutes, loaded with toxic aluminum,” it claims. According to a search using the social media monitoring tool CrowdTangle, the post was first shared on a public Facebook page on June 8, 2019 and on Instagram three days later. It has been shared more than 1,000 times in June 2020, including , during a flurry of disinformation about immunizations as scientists around the world search for a COVID-19 vaccine. According to CrowdTangle, this post has been in circulation since October 2015 on Instagram and January 2016 on Facebook -- including a 2017 post by the same user who shared it in 2020. Instagram likes on the post peaked in June 2020.
False claim circulates online that China is no longer hospitalising COVID-19 patients.The claims are false; as of July 1, 2020, Chinese media continues to report on the hospitalisation of COVID-19 patients; experts warn the purported remedies for COVID-19 cited in the misleading posts do not cure the virus and are potentially harmful to human health.The claims were published on Facebook on June 25, 2020. The post has been shared more than 260 times. The claims, however, are false; as of June 30, 2020, Chinese media continues to report on COVID-19 patients hospitalised across the country. This June 30, 2020 report by China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency states, in part: "Chinese health authority said Tuesday it received reports of 19 newly confirmed COVID-19 cases on the Chinese mainland Monday, including eight domestically transmitted and 11 imported ones.
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation spokesperson dismissed the purported link between Gates and microchip the vaccine; as of June 24, New Zealand authorities say there is no record of Gates visiting the country in 2020. The claims were published in Facebook post on May 30, 2020. It has been viewed more than 1,000 times. “Bill Gates’ ultimate goal is to microchip the vaccine so that you can be tracked and traced while moving ‘safely’ within society. “Another reason, apparently, is so that it gives the millions of people around the world without an official ID a virtual ID.”  These claims, however, are false. 
The posts Misleadingly claims that Israel has reported zero deatth  from COVID-19 by drinking a remedy of hot water, lemon and baking soda, which purportedly “kills” the virus but the claims are false. As of June 21 the World Health Organization (WHO) states Israel has reported 305 deaths from COVID-19; health experts say there is no evidence the baking soda concoction can cure or prevent COVID-19 infections. According to the WHO, Israel reported its first COVID-19 death on March 20, 2020, and as of June 21, 2020, a total of 305 deaths related to the disease have been reported in the country. Health experts also say there is “no evidence” that mixing lemon and bicarbonate can provide immunity from COVID-19 infections.
Multiple Facebook posts shared thousands of times by Filipino Facebook users make several false claims about a future vaccine for COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. The posts also make  claims about a link between a potential vaccine and the rollout of 5G technology as These claims are all false, according to health experts. The post contains a photo of a syringe overlaid with Tagalog-language text that states: "Don’t get vaccinated mate!".The Facebook post's caption states in part: “COVID 19 =means Certificate Of Vaccination Identity with 19, 1=A 9=I for AI= Artificial Intelligence / This is not really the name of the virus, but this is an International plan to control and limit the population."
Mulitple Facebook posts shared thousands of times claim the Italian health ministry has discovered COVID-19 is caused by bacteria and are  curable by taking paracetamol but  the claims are false; the Italian health ministry said the posts were “a hoax”. the claims have also been widely refuted by international experts, who have found COVID-19 is caused by the novel coronavirus.The claims were published on Facebook here on May 24, 2020. The post was shared more than 2,900 times."It's a hoax," a spokeswoman for the Italian health ministry told AFP on June 3, 2020.The claims have also been widely disproven by international health experts. Scientists have found that COVID-19 is caused by a coronavirus -- not bacteria. The first major outbreak of the disease was in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019. It has since spread worldwide. “By Jan 7, 2020, Chinese scientists had isolated a novel coronavirus (CoV) from patients in Wuhan,” states this study published in The Lancet, one of the world’s top peer-reviewed scientific journals.
A Facebook post shared 10,000 times claims no Americans died from the flu in 2020, suggesting that the national count of COVID-19 fatalities is exaggerated however  This is false. Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that more than 7,500 Americans are estimated to have died this year from influenza during the novel coronavirus. The CDC tracks influenza illnesses, medical visits, hospitalizations and deaths every flu season.Flu fatalities are estimated weekly, based on death certificate data, by the National Center for Health Statistics, part of the CDC.The NCHS estimates that more than 7,500 Americans died from the flu between January 5 and May 9, 2020, according to a tally of its weekly data. COVID-19, which has killed more than 93,000 people in the US since it emerged in late 2019, is affecting whether patients seek healthcare, the CDC says, so illness data should be interpreted cautiously.
Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates didi not  said a COVID-19 vaccine could kill almost one million people, citing an interview he gave. Gates was talking about vaccine safety and the potential for side effects, and gave a hypothetical figure to illustrate the number of people who could possibly be affected by them worldwide. There is currently no vaccine for COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, which has killed more than 315,000 people worldwide since it emerged in China in late 2019.
False headline claims actress urged women to kill babies in home abortions. she was introducing Planned Parenthood’s new program, “Telehealth,” which does not offer home abortions.“Maybe in 10 years, we’ll have Daniel Craig guiding us through DIY euthanasia at home,” the article on anti-abortion website LifeNews says. At no point in the video does the actress mention abortion or tell women to “kill their babies” at home. Life News corrected the headline on May 21, 2020 after AFP published this fact check. There is a link at the bottom of the video to the website of the Pasadena & San Gabriel Valley division of Planned Parenthood. The clinic is “currently only accepting urgent visits” for issues including sexually transmitted infection treatment, emergency contraception, and abortion.
Multiple Facebook, Twitter and Instagram posts shared hundreds of times claim that wearing a face mask for an extended period of time could cause hypercapnia, a condition caused by a buildup of carbon dioxide in the blood however the claim is misleading. health experts in Thailand have said that as of May 2020, there is no evidence that wearing a mask for a long period can cause hypercapnia. The misleading post's caption reads: “The prolonged wearing of mask will cause respiratory problems that will be blamed on a 2nd wave of Covid-19. Thailand’s Department of Disease Control published this infographic on April 17, 2020, saying there is no evidence that prolonged use of masks can result in the changes of human blood’s pH balance.
A video featuring aerial shots of futuristic skyscrapers, giant bridges and other landmarks has been shared thousands of times on Facebook with false claims that it shows Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the novel coronavirus pandemic emerged in December 2019. However, AFP found the video is a compilation of shots from various Chinese cities but not Wuhan.  The captions accompanying the video - which is being shared on social media in several countries including Nigeria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic - say that the footage represents Wuhan.  Slovak site Hlavný Denník shared the same footage with a similar claim on April 10. This site has previously published false information debunked by AFP . These two versions of the video were shared by more than 6,500 Facebook users.
A photo of dozens of men praying on neighbouring rooftops has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook and Twitter alongside with a false claim it shows Muslim worshippers in India praying together in defiance of the country’s COVID-19 lockdown. The claim is false; the photo in fact shows people praying in Dubai.  The photo was shared nearly 700 times since being published on Facebook on April 14, 2020. The post’s Hindi caption tran slates to English as: “This act of praying might be loyalty to their religion but this is mutiny against India #coronavirus, #covid19 #stayathome.”A combination of reverse image and keyword searches based on identified landmarks in the photo found that it was in fact taken in Dubai, the largest city in the United Arab Emirates.
Facebook posts claim a child who is infected with the novel coronavirus will be taken to a hospital unaccompanied however this is misleading. many hospitals have prohibited visitors during the COVID-19 pandemic, but even facilities in heavily-affected states have exceptions allowing a parent or caregiver to be with pediatric patients.   Although each hospital in the US decides on its own visitor guidelines, consent must be obtained from the patient’s parent or legal guardian under most state laws before treating a minor, or person under age 18. A review of visitation guidelines from major hospitals and health care providers in some of the states that are hardest hit by COVID-19 found they are still allowing a guardian to accompany a minor to the hospital. New York state is at the epicenter of the fast-spreading pandemic in the United States, accounting for more than 57,000 hospitalizations due to COVID-19, according to the latest data from Johns Hopkins University.
A video that shows an argument between shoppers that Australian department store posts alongside a claim that Chinese nationals have been banned from supermarkets in Australia however the claim is false. major Australian supermarket chains told AFP there was no policy that bans Chinese people from their stores as of April 2020; the video in the misleading posts has circulated in media reports about a dispute in an Australian supermarket over baby formula. The 42-second video shows an altercation between an Asian couple and a Caucasian man at a branch of Big W, an Australian department store.   The tweet's caption states in part: “Chinese not allowed in Supermarkets in Australia So it’s started”. The clip circulated online as scenes of panic buying were reported in Australia during the novel coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 152,000 people and infected over 2.2 million others worldwide, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
This video shows Afghan nationals leaving Pakistan not entering during a temporary opening of the border. The claim is false; the video in fact shows Afghan nationals leaving Pakistan after the border was temporarily opened in early April in order to allow Afghans to return home. The novel coronavirus has so far killed at least 91 people and infected 5,230 more in Pakistan as of April 13, according to official government records. The claim is false; the footage actually shows Afghan nationals leaving Pakistan and returning to Afghanistan in early April 2020. The crossing occurred after Pakistan, which sealed its borders in March, made special temporary arrangements for the stranded Afghans in Pakistan to leave via the Torkham border.
A doctored video has been shared repeatedly on social media  which misleadingly claim it shows a genuine news report about Australian researchers discovering bananas can help prevent infection by the novel coronavirus, COVID-19. The claim is false the video has been doctored from a news report by the Australian television channel ABC to include references to bananas; the scientist cited in the report told AFP the claim is untrue.The first three seconds of the video show the beginning of a news report, bearing the logo of Australia’s public broadcaster ABC News. The news presenter Kathryn Robinson can be heard saying: “Scientists from the University of Queensland are confident they’ll be able to develop a vaccine for the deadly coronavirus.”
A high-profile government climbdown that legalised a type of cannabis medicine on the NHS five years ago misled patients, campaigners say. It was thought the law change would mean the unlicensed drug, which treats a range of conditions, could be freely prescribed by specialist doctors. But fewer than five NHS patients have been given the medicine, leaving others to either pay privately or miss out. The government says safety needs to be proven before a wider rollout. Legalisation of whole-cannabis medicine was hailed as a breakthrough for patients - giving either NHS or private specialist doctors the option to prescribe it if they believed their patients would benefit. Medical whole cannabis uses the entire cannabis plant - which includes the compound THC, the part which can make people feel high.
Female surgeons say they are being sexually harassed, assaulted and in some cases raped by colleagues, a major analysis of NHS staff has found. BBC News has spoken to women who were sexually assaulted in the operating theatre while surgery took place. The study's authors say there is a pattern of female trainees being abused by senior male surgeons, and this is happening now, in NHS hospitals. The Royal College of Surgeons said the findings were "truly shocking". Warning - this story contains some graphic detail. There is support for anyone affected here. Sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape have been referred to as surgery's open secret. There is an untold story of women being fondled inside their scrubs, of male surgeons wiping their brow on their breasts and men rubbing erections against female staff. Some have been offered career opportunities for sex.

The NHS is starting to give booster shots of Covid and flu vaccine to older people living in care homes in England over concerns about a highly-mutated new Covid variant that is spreading. The faster-than-planned rollout, which begins on Monday, is to quickly top up the protection of those at most risk. There have been 34 confirmed cases of BA. 2. 86 in England, with 28 of those behind a Norfolk care home outbreak. It is too early to know if it is more serious than past variants. Starting with adult care homes and people who are housebound, other eligible groups will begin to be invited for their shots soon afterwards. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have also brought forward the booster rollout to early September.
A new Covid variant is spreading in England and is behind an outbreak at a care home in Norfolk, health officials say. There have been 34 confirmed cases of BA. 2. 86, with 28 of those at the care home. There have been no deaths. It is too early to draw conclusions on whether it is more serious than past variants, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said. People eligible for a booster jab this autumn are encouraged to come forward. The government recently announced that the vaccine rollout would be earlier than planned because of the new variant. It will start next week. The UK Health Security Agency's latest briefing on Covid includes an analysis on BA. 2. 86, an Omicron spin-off. It says out of the 34 cases confirmed through sequencing in a lab, five people have needed hospital treatment. Based on detection of multiple unlinked cases in different regions of the UK, it's likely there is "established community transmission of BA. 2. 86", UKHSA says. Scotland has also recorded two cases.
A father whose daughter died after travelling to Turkey for weight-loss surgery has urged people to think again before doing the same. Shannon Meenan Browse from Londonderry was 32 when she died in August. The mother-of-four travelled for a gastric sleeve operation 18 months ago but, according to her father, got sick almost straight away. Shane Meenan said his daughter could not keep any food down in the wake of the operation. He said the illness got so bad her teeth began to rot due to constant vomiting. The family were told she died in Altnagelvin Hospital from "malnutrition due to gastric sleeve".

Scientists have grown an entity that closely resembles an early human embryo, without using sperm, eggs or a womb. The Weizmann Institute team say their "embryo model", made using stem cells, looks like a textbook example of a real 14-day-old embryo. It even released hormones that turned a pregnancy test positive in the lab. The ambition for embryo models is to provide an ethical way of understanding the earliest moments of our lives. The first weeks after a sperm fertilises an egg is a period of dramatic change - from a collection of indistinct cells to something that eventually becomes recognisable on a baby scan. This crucial time is a major source of miscarriage and birth defects but poorly understood. "It's a black box and that's not a cliche - our knowledge is very limited," Prof Jacob Hanna, from the Weizmann Institute of Science, tells me.

More than 140 bleed kits are being installed in communities in an effort to prevent "tragic loss of life". Avon and Somerset Police, NHS England South West and HeartSafe will install the life-saving kits across the region. Each of the 144 kits contains dressings and tourniquets, nitrile gloves, scissors and an instruction guide. Ch Insp Mike Vass said that in the event a person is seriously injured, they hope the kits will go some way to help saving someone's life. The kits are being installed onto the side of existing HeartSafe defibrillators in Bristol, Somerset, Bath and North East Somerset and South Gloucestershire. Ch Insp Vass, Avon and Somerset Police's knife crime lead, said: "We know we cannot police our way out of serious violence, it has to be a partnership approach, not just between us and our partners in health and social care, but also with members of our communities who can play a key part in helping us. "

A hospital trust has apologised after there was a 24-hour delay in treating a teenager for a potentially life-threatening illness. Ella Watts attended The Royal Albert Edward Infirmary in Wigan with flu-like symptoms, chest pain, vomiting and diarrhoea in December 2018. She was triaged as a lower priority patient and returned home after being told there was a four-hour wait. Miss Watts, then 17, was rushed back to hospital with sepsis the next day. Miss Watts, who is from Skelmersdale, Lancashire, was put on intravenous fluids and diagnosed with acute kidney injury secondary to sepsis - when the body attacks itself in response to an infection. She was admitted to the high dependency unit and then transferred to intensive care. She subsequently developed respiratory failure and needed assistance with her breathing. Miss Watts was discharged home a week later but, now aged 21, she has said she continues to suffer psychologically having developed post-traumatic stress disorder following her time in hospital.
Women in labour are often being denied their first choice of pain relief, after a hospital suspended gas and air. North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust temporarily stopped using Entonox in Peterborough's maternity ward in February. Some mothers have called the suspension "unfair" and "completely unacceptable". The trust said it was suspended "to protect midwifery and medical teams" and it was working to reinstate it. Hollie Nolan gave birth to a baby boy, Cole, on 9 September at Peterborough City Hospital (PCH), describing her experience as "challenging". During her two previous births she had relied on gas and air - a combination of nitrous oxide and oxygen which helps with pain relief and anxiety.

The Welsh NHS may have overspent by more than £800m by the spring of 2024, according to BBC Wales analysis. Inflation has hit hospitals, leading to spiralling fuel, staff and drug costs, while demand for treatment has risen due to the post-Covid backlog. Health Minister Eluned Morgan wants health boards to find cuts that cause "the least damage to patients". But she warned "difficult choices" would need to be made to tackle the "massive" overspend. She previously warned that the NHS was "unsustainable" in its current form. Ms Morgan has placed all seven Welsh health boards under higher levels of financial scrutiny together for the first time, pointing to "extreme financial challenges" and blaming UK government austerity and record inflation. Rising inflation, dealing with the Covid backlog, an ageing population and covering for staff shortages were cited as the main reasons for the worsening financial situation.

Ariana Grande has said she previously used filler and Botox as "something to hide behind". The singer made the comments in an emotional video for Vogue, in which she also confirmed she stopped the cosmetic treatments in 2018. "Full transparency. . . As a beauty person, as I do my lips, I've had a tonne of lip filler over the years and Botox," she said. "For a long time beauty was about hiding for me," the 30-year-old added. "And now I feel like maybe it's not. " The US star said she "stopped in 2018 because I just felt so. . . too much", adding she wanted to "see my well-earned cry lines and smile lines". As she was speaking, she appeared to hold back tears, admitting she "didn't expect to get emotional" in a video where she was demonstrating how to do a 60s make-up look.

NHS leaders and ministers will meet in Downing Street on Wednesday to discuss planning for winter. The summit will involve the prime minister, health secretary and NHS England boss Amanda Pritchard. The focus will be on what else the NHS needs to help it through the winter. With a record number of people on the hospital waiting list, the threat of continued strikes by doctors and long waits for emergency care, concern is growing over how the NHS will cope. The event comes after the launch of the winter flu and Covid vaccination campaign earlier this week. An extra 5,000 hospital beds are already in the process of being opened - increasing capacity by about 5%. And there will be at least 10,000 "virtual" hospital beds, where doctors provide remote monitoring of patients - who would otherwise have to be admitted to hospital - in their homes.

Maternity units where dozens of babies have died or been injured are no longer rated inadequate by a care watchdog. Nottingham University Hospitals (NUH) NHS Trust is subject to the largest review of its kind in the UK after a series of failings. Police are also investigating the trust's maternity services, now rated "requires improvement". Bereaved families said the report was a "small step", and added "much more needs to be done". Dr Jack Hawkins and his wife Sarah, who both used to work for NUH, have campaigned for safe maternity services after their daughter Harriet died due
The family of a woman who died during buttock enlargement surgery have praised a coroner for committing to ask the government to warn people about cosmetic procedures abroad. Melissa Kerr, 31, from Gorleston, Norfolk, died at a private hospital in Istanbul, Turkey, in 2019. Norfolk coroner Jacqueline Lake said she would undertake a "prevention of future deaths" report about the case. Ms Kerr's twin, Natasha, said they were "extremely happy" it was being written. At the inquest, which concluded on Tuesday, an expert witness - plastic surgeon Simon Withey - said the high rate of deaths as a result of Brazilian butt-lifts (BBL) amounted to more than one in every 4,000 procedures. Mr Withey said if the risk of the procedure had been explained to Ms Kerr before she had financially committed to it, she would not "in all probability" have gone through with it.

Maternity services run by Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust have been judged good by inspectors. The Care Quality Commission (CQC) also judged Frimley Park Hospital in Frimley as outstanding overall and Wexham Park Hospital in Slough, Berkshire, as good overall. The CQC's rating for the trust remains good overall. The inspections in May were part of a national programme to assess the quality of maternity services. Carolyn Jenkinson, CQC deputy director of secondary and specialist care, said: "Leaders had the skills and abilities to help staff meet the needs of women and other people using services. "They also supported and encouraged staff to develop their skills for the benefit of people using services. "

A six-month wait for results of a cervical smear test has been described as "worrying and extremely frustrating"so  Lisa Clarke from County Antrim said the system is "drastically broken". BBC News NI can reveal that at the start of September, 7,104 women were waiting three to six months for results. The Department of Health (DoH) said it "fully acknowledged that the backlog needs to be addressed". Ms Clarke said she was referred for a smear test by her GP after she was treated for bleeding and other gynaecological issues. Smear tests are a cancer screening service offered to women aged between 25 and 64. Results usually come back within 12 weeks.

A group of firefighters are cycling 248 miles (400km) in aid of a cancer charity, following the breast cancer diagnosis of one of their wives. Jessica Parsons, from Bath, was diagnosed with metaplastic squamous cell carcinoma in June 2022. Her husband, Matt, is embarking on the three-day journey from Bath with nine of his colleagues on Thursday. Ms Parsons said: "I feel very humbled to think they're doing that to help people like me. " The team of firefighters, from the Avon Fire and Rescue Service, will be setting off from Bath Fire Station as soon as their night shift finishes on Thursday morning. They chose to cycle to the Eiffel Tower as Ms Parsons is half French and was born in Paris. Mr Parsons, will be joined by his colleagues, Kit Chapman, Rich Wheeler, Ian Manfield, Ben Parsons, Alex Gapper, Alex Werren, Liam Higgs, Pete Showering and Jon Holmes. They will be cycling more than 62 miles (100km) every day for three days until they reach their destination.

Thousands of workers at four London NHS trusts are set to go on strike from Wednesday in a pay and staffing row. More than 2,800 Unite members at Barts Health NHS Trust; Barking, Havering and Redbridge University Trust; East London Foundation Trust and Guys and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust say they will walk out. Nurses, pathologists, cleaners and porters are among those taking part. NHS England said the strike would have an "unprecedented impact on the NHS". Chris Streather, London's regional NHS England medical director, said urgent and emergency would be prioritised on strike days. Unite's Sharon Graham said the action was planned "to combat low pay". Barts Health NHS Trust staff will strike for a total of eight days, on 13 and 14 September and from 16 to 22 September.

The Isle of Man's director and head of nursing has urged union members to call off planned strike action over pay. A 12-hour walk out is planned by Royal College of Nursing (RCN) members from 08:00 BST on Thursday. Paul Moore warned the staffing of essential services could fall to "dangerous" levels during the period, causing patients "pain and suffering". But Estephanie Dunn from the RCN said low pay had "made care unsafe" and not strike action. Manx Care's "negligence" had led to the profession being in the "dire state" it is in now, she said. The union's members staged the Isle of Man's first ever nursing strike in July after a breakdown in talks over pay and conditions. Mr Moore said he saw "patients not getting the care they needed, having pain, being in discomfort".
Researchers have grown and kept human cells alive in a artificial eye in a laboratory. The team at Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford, Essex, hope it could be the next step towards treatment for age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Prof Barbara Pierscionek, who led the research, said it was an "exciting breakthrough". Macular Society chief executive Cathy Yelf said the development was "encouraging". Using nanotechnology, a 3D replica was created to support the growth of the cells, much like scaffolding. The replica mimics the macular layer at the back of the eye. The university hopes the next step will be to conduct clinical trials. Prof Pierscionek said: "We've found something that's allowing the cells to grow and be viable in the long term. "
A lawyer who has battled sepsis four times in the past eight years wants to raise awareness of the signs and symptoms to look out for. Alexander Davenport, from Cambridge, was first diagnosed with sepsis in 2015 following an infection. He said: "To go through it four times and be close to death on more than one occasion is nothing short of terrifying. " Sepsis happens when the body attacks itself in reaction to an infection. The father of one first became ill in 2015 after having a cellulitis infection in his arm, and then also developed a stiff hamstring in his left leg. A week later, he was taken to A&E after experiencing redness and heat at the site of the pain, and chills, despite having a temperature of 40C (104F). In the past eight years he has been diagnosed with sepsis on four separate occasions, with a range of symptoms including confusion, nausea, pain, a fever and chills.

MPs will investigate the sexual harassment and sexual assault of female surgeons taking place within the NHS. BBC News reported women being sexually assaulted even in the operating theatre, while surgery took place. And the first major report into the problem found female trainees being abused by senior male surgeons. The Health and Social Care Committee said it would look into the issue and its chair, Steve Brine, said the revelations were "shocking". "The NHS has a duty to ensure that hospitals are safe spaces for all staff to work in and to hold managers to account to ensure that action is taken against those responsible," Mr Brine said. "We expect to look into this when we consider leadership in the NHS in our future work. "
A high-profile government climbdown that legalised a type of cannabis medicine on the NHS five years ago misled patients, campaigners say. It was thought the law change would mean the unlicensed drug, which treats a range of conditions, could be freely prescribed by specialist doctors. But fewer than five NHS patients have been given the medicine, leaving others to either pay privately or miss out. The government says safety needs to be proven before a wider rollout. Legalisation of whole-cannabis medicine was hailed as a breakthrough for patients - giving either NHS or private specialist doctors the option to prescribe it if they believed their patients would benefit. Medical whole cannabis uses the entire cannabis plant - which includes the compound THC, the part which can make people feel high. But patients are being turned away, say campaigners, because doctors often do not know about the medicine, which is not on NHS trusts' approved lists. Some specialists who do know about it say there is insufficient evidence of the drug's safety and benefits to support prescribing.
A surgeon patted the bottom of a female patient in a hospital lift and later told her husband to "go home and fill her up", a medical tribunal has heard. Consultant Tony Dixon is said to have behaved inappropriately more than a week after he performed colorectal surgery on the woman. He appeared at a Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service hearing in Manchester earlier, where he is accused of misconduct in relation to six patients. Mr Dixon denies the allegations. In May 2022, North Bristol NHS Trust admitted more than 200 patients had been given unnecessary bowel operations by Mr Dixon. A review found dozens of people had suffered harm after the consultant gave them pelvic floor surgery using artificial mesh, a technique he had pioneered. He worked at the trust's Southmead Hospital and also at the private Spire Hospital in the city during the time of the allegations, between 2010 and 2016.
Rishi Sunak has been accused of having no clear strategy on China, leaving the UK's future security "handicapped". Sir Keir Starmer said the PM failed to heed warnings and was "desperately playing catch up", during the weekly Prime Minister's Questions session. The Labour leader repeated his call for a "full audit of UK-China relations". Mr Sunak said the UK had the "most robust policy" on China it had ever had and was in line with the country's international allies. It comes amid ongoing controversy about the arrest, in March, of a parliamentary researcher on suspicion of working as a Chinese agent.

North Korea's Kim Jong Un has met Vladimir Putin in Russia in a highly scrutinised visit which was expected to yield an arms deal. After talks ended at the Vostochny space centre, Mr Kim began his long journey home on his private armoured train, Russian state media reported. Speaking later on Wednesday, Mr Putin said the pair discussed "possibilities" for military cooperation. Moscow has indicated it will help Pyongyang develop satellites in return. Both sides denied the US' claim that the talks are aimed at buying weapons to support Russia's war against Ukraine. Besides advanced space technology, Mr Kim is also thought to have asked for food aid in return. The meeting between the two sanctioned regimes, which included senior officials from both sides, took place at a time when their relations with the West are at an all-time low.

The southern Indian state of Kerala has issued an alert after it confirmed that two people have died from the rare Nipah virus. One of the deaths occurred earlier this month while the other took place on 30 August, both in the state's Kozhikode district, officials said. Two relatives of a victim have also tested positive for the virus and are being treated in hospital. The is the fourth Nipah outbreak in Kerala since 2018. The Nipah virus infection is a "zoonotic illness" transmitted from animals like pigs and fruit bats to humans, according to the World Health Organization. It can also be transmitted through contaminated food and through contact with an infected person. People who contract the virus sometimes show no noticeable symptoms, while others show signs of acute respiratory problems. In severe cases, a Nipah infection can result in foetal encephalitis - a serious condition that affects the brain.

At least eight people are known to have died and dozens were injured in a huge fire in an apartment block in Vietnam's capital Hanoi. Some 70 people were rescued from the nine-storey building, state media said. Local reports put the toll far higher. The fire, which broke out during the night, has been extinguished but rescue operations are continuing. Authorities in fast-growing Hanoi say many newly-built apartments do not meet fire safety regulations. The city's population has quadrupled to 5. 25 million in the past 20 years.

The former chairman of China Life Insurance, Wang Bin, has become the latest high-profile boss to be imprisoned as Beijing's crackdown on the financial industry continues. Mr Wang was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, according to a court ruling seen by the BBC. After two years, the sentence will be commuted to life in prison without parole, the ruling says. In April, authorities warned that the crackdown was far from over. A court in Jinan in eastern China's Shandong province found Mr Wang guilty of taking 325 million yuan ($44. 6m; £35. 7m) in bribes. Mr Wang, who was the firm's Communist Party chief, was also sentenced to a year in prison for illegally hiding 54. 2 million yuan in overseas deposits. He is the latest boss from a major Chinese financial institution to be ensnared in President Xi Jinping's more than two-year longcrackdown on corruption in the $60 trillion (£48 trillion) industry.

In a rare testimony before US lawmakers, a Canadian politician Michael Chong has urged for co-operation between the two countries US and canada to combat foreign interference by china. Michael Chong was himself allegedly targeted by China for criticising its human rights record. He was invited to speak about his experience before a US Congressional committee tasked with monitoring China. He said Beijing's actions pose a "serious, national threat" to Canada. "My experience is but one case of Beijing's interference in Canada," Mr Chong told the bipartisan committee on Monday. "Many, many other cases go unnoticed and unreported, and the victims suffer in silence. " Earlier this year, Canada accused China of targeting Mr Chong with a misinformation campaign on the popular messaging app WeChat.
A judge in Pakistan has ruled Sara Sharif's siblings, who travelled from the UK with her father, should be sent to a government childcare facility. The five children were found at the home of their grandfather in Jhelum, north-eastern Pakistan. Sara, 10, was found dead at her family home in Woking, Surrey, on 10 August - a day after three adults, including her father, left the UK. Post-mortem tests found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". Sara's father Urfan Sharif, stepmother Beinash Batool and his brother Faisal Malik left the UK with five children aged between one and 13. Surrey Police said they would like to speak to the three adults in relation to Sara's death, and were "absolutely committed to conducting a thorough investigation". Pakistan police have so far been unable to locate them.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has left India after a problem with his aircraft extended a testing visit to India's capital by two days. He was meant to fly on Sunday after the G20 summit ended but an embarrassing mechanical snag grounded him. Opponents at home and Indian social media users mocked him for the delay, which came after Mr Trudeau had a tense meeting with Indian PM Narendra Modi. Canada-India relations have grown increasingly strained in recent months. Mr Trudeau's visit "did nothing to mend the frosty ties that he has developed with India", reported India Today on Tuesday. Days before he flew to Delhi, Mr Trudeau unexpectedly said his country was pausing talks on a trade treaty between the two countries.

Dozens of crocodiles have escaped from a breeding farm in southern China during flooding caused by Typhoon Haikui, Chinese authorities said. Around 75 crocodiles made a break for it when a lake in Maoming, Guangdong province overflowed. While some were recaptured, local authorities shot or electrocuted others "for safety reasons". Chinese state media report that eight reptiles have been rounded-up so far, leaving dozens at large. Villagers close by have been told to stay at home. Typhoon Haikui has been tearing across south Asia for more than a week, affecting China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Japan. Seven people have been killed and three others are missing in southern China following the typhoon - now downgraded to a tropical storm - which has caused landslides and flooding.
Police in the north Indian state of Haryana have arrested a wanted cow vigilante accused of being at the centre of the deadly religious violence that broke out there last month. Mohit Yadav, popularly known as Monu Manesar, is accused of instigating violence in Nuh district in which six people died and scores were injured. He is also a prime suspect in the murder in February of two Muslim men in Rajasthan state. He denies all the charges against him. Mr Manesar was caught in Haryana on Tuesday. The state's Additional Director General of Police Mamta Singh confirmed his arrest to the Times of India newspaper. It was not immediately clear in which case has Mr Manesar been arrested, but police said they had charged him for uploading "objectionable and inflammatory" posts under a fictitious name on social media, reports the Indian Express.

Nobel laureate Maria Ressa has been acquitted in the last of five tax evasion cases filed against her in the Philippines, in what is being hailed as a win for press freedom. "You know the song of our generation? You got to have faith," she told the BBC. All the cases were lodged during former president Rodrigo Duterte's term. Ms Ressa's news website Rappler published reports criticising his bloody war on drugs She won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2021 for her fearless reporting in the face of growing authoritarianism in the Philippines, an honour she shared with Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov.

North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un has crossed the border into Russia for a meeting with President Vladimir Putin. They are likely to discuss an arms deal as Russia faces a Ukrainian counter offensive, a US official said. South Korea's defence ministry confirmed that Mr Kim's armoured train entered Russia early on Tuesday morning. It is now moving towards Vladivostok, where Russia is hosting the Eastern Economic Forum. That journey is expected to take another five to six hours. The meeting between the two leaders could take place as early as Tuesday local time - although the statement from the Kremlin said it would happen in "coming days. " Mr Kim is accompanied by senior government officials, including military personnel, KCNA reported. Photos shared by state media showed Mr Kim waving from his armoured train before departing Pyongyang.

Rishi Sunak has said he "will not accept" Chinese interference in the UK's democracy, after it emerged a parliamentary researcher was arrested amid accusations he spied for China. In a statement to MPs, the PM said he told Chinese Premier Li Qiang at the recent G20 summit that any attempted spying "will never be tolerated". The Met Police confirmed on Saturday that two men were arrested under the Official Secrets Act in March. The researcher denies the allegations. The man said in a statement he felt "forced to respond" to accusations in the media. China has rejected the allegations of spying, with foreign ministry spokesperson Mao Ning calling it "malicious slander". House of Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle has warned MPs against identifying the man - who is not being named by the BBC - using parliamentary privilege.
A former Pakistan international cricketer has been given a 12 year prison sentence in the Netherlands for threatening far-right MP Geert Wilders. The case was based on a video posted online in 2018, in which Khalid Latif offered 21,000 euros (£18,000) to anyone who would kill the politician. That was after Mr Wilders made comments about the Prophet Muhammad that were offensive to Muslims. It is considered unlikely that Latif will serve any of his sentence. He currently lives in Pakistan, which has no extradition treaty with the Netherlands. The Dutch authorities have been seeking to question Latif for several years but said they have been given no help from Pakistan. The court ruled on Monday "it was not a stretch to think that somebody around the world would have taken heed of the call to kill Mr Wilders". Presiding judge G Verbeek said his comments were not just an attack on Mr Wilders personally but an attack on free speech.
Lindsay Hoyle speaker has told MPs they should not name the Parliamentary researcher arrested under anti-espionage laws amid facing claims he was spying for China. One of two men arrested in March under the Official Secrets Act, the staffer has since claimed he was innocent and felt "forced to respond" to the accusations. The Commons Speaker told Parliament that some press coverage has been "unhelpful" and told MPs not to discuss security issues in the Commons, but to raise issues privately with him.

US President Joe Biden has said that he raised issues of human rights in India and the importance of a free press with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. Mr Biden was in the Indian capital to attend the G20 summit. He also held a bilateral meeting with Mr Modi. The US president left India on Sunday before the summit ended to travel to Vietnam. Activists and rights groups have questioned India's deteriorating human rights track record under Mr Modi. His government has denied allegations that attacks on minorities, especially Muslims, have risen since his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in 2014. Mr Biden made the remarks at a press conference in Hanoi, where he said he had "substantial discussions" with Mr Modi about continuing to strengthen the India-US relationship.
Several multi-million dollar mansions at a cliffside estate in Hong Kong are at risk of collapse after record rains last week eroded their foundations. The rains loosened the soil and carved the side of the cliff in the southern district of Tai Tam, an enclave of celebrities and tycoons. Landslides led some Redhill Peninsula residents to evacuate on Saturday. Three houses appeared to be at high risk of falling off the cliff, based on photographs. Hong Kong is vulnerable to floods and landslides because many buildings and roads are built into steep slopes and such hazards have been heightened by climate change. Authorities found that two basements had been dug into the ground in one of the homes and they suspect that this was done without approval from the Hong Kong Building Authority.
President Joe Biden has denied that the US is attempting to stem China's international influence, after signing a new historic deal with Vietnam. More than 50 years since the last American soldier left Vietnam, Mr Biden travelled to Hanoi to sign the agreement that will bring the former foes closer than ever before. The Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with Vietnam is a major relationship upgrade for the US. It is the culmination of a relentless push by Washington over the last two years to strengthen ties with Vietnam, which it sees as key to counter China's influence in Asia. It is also no small feat. The partnership with Washington is the highest level of diplomatic ties extended by Vietnam. Mr Biden told reporters in Hanoi that American actions were not about containing or isolating China, but about maintaining stability in accordance with international rules.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has praised a joint declaration by G20 leaders in Delhi that avoids condemning Moscow for its war against Ukraine. Russia had not expected consensus and agreement on the wording was "a step in the right direction", said Mr Lavrov. The closing G20 statement denounced using force for territorial gain but made no mention of Russian aggression, prompting criticism from Ukraine. The two-day summit also inducted a new permanent member, the African Union. The 55-member bloc joins at the invitation of hosts India, one of whose key objectives while president has been to make the G20 more inclusive with greater participation of so-called Global South countries. The world's biggest economies reached other key deals in Delhi, including one on climate and biofuels - although there was criticism of the summit's failure to commit to phasing out fossil fuels.

Ukraine has little more than 30 days left of fighting before the weather hinders its counter-offensive, the top-ranking US military officer says. Speaking to the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme, Gen Mark Milley said colder conditions would make it much harder for Ukraine to manoeuvre. He admitted the offensive had gone more slowly than expected. But he said: "There's still heavy fighting going on. "The Ukrainians are still plugging away with steady progress. " Gen Milley said it was too early to say whether the counter-offensive had failed, but said Ukraine was "progressing at a very steady pace through the Russian front lines". "There's still a reasonable amount of time, probably about 30 to 45 days' worth of fighting weather left, so the Ukrainians aren't done.
A researcher at the UK Parliament has been arrested under the Official Secrets Act, amid claims he was spying for China. Police have confirmed two men, one in his 20s and another in his 30s, were arrested under the act in March. Sources have told the BBC one of them was a parliamentary researcher involved in international affairs issues. As first reported in the Sunday Times, it is understood the researcher had access to several Conservative MPs. On Sunday morning, No 10 said Rishi Sunak had expressed concerns about Chinese interference to a senior official from China. A spokesperson said the prime minister had met Chinese Premier Li Qiang during the G20 summit in India, and "conveyed his significant concerns about Chinese interference the UK's parliamentary democracy".

A charity set up in memory of a Scots aid worker killed in Afghanistan hopes to get 20 Afghan medical students to Scotland to finish their studies. Linda Norgrove, from Lewis, was kidnapped by the Taliban in 2010 and died during an attempt to rescue her. Her parents set up a foundation in her name to support projects helping Afghan women and girls. The charity has called on the UK and Scottish governments to make procedures easier for the female medical students. The foundation said that after much waiting and discussions with both governments, it was no further forward in getting the women from Afghanistan to Scotland.
A number of relatives of the father of Sara Sharif have been detained for questioning by police in Pakistan. Sara's father, Urfan Sharif, 41, and his partner Beinash Batool, 29, fled the UK after the 10-year-old was found dead at their home in Woking on 10 August. Post-mortem tests found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". A police spokesman in Jhelum said 10 close relatives had been detained but not arrested.

North Korea has marked the 75th anniversary of its founding day with a parade attended by Russian diplomats and a Chinese delegation. The Friday event in Pyongyang's Kim Il Sung Square featured uniformed paramilitary brigades. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, a Russian military song-and-dance ensemble and officials from Beijing were all in attendance. The event follows rumours that Mr Kim might meet Vladimir Putin this month. It is understood Mr Kim is planning to travel to Russia to discuss with the Russian president the possibility of North Korea providing Moscow with weapons to support its war in Ukraine. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to comment on the matter when asked by a journalist in Moscow on Saturday, according to the Interfax news agency.
Striking portraits of Queen Elizabeth II painted in a basement in Kabul are key to an Afghan artist's hopes of a new life in Northern Ireland. Noor Arzhang is currently in hiding in Pakistan, having fled Afghanistan under Taliban rule. But some of his artwork, including two contrasting portraits of the late Queen, has made its way to Belfast. Hollywood superstar Angelina Jolie has also taken an interest in his painting - buying two pieces for her US gallery. Since taking power in 2021, the Taliban have imposed numerous restrictions, including on playing music in public. Women have borne the brunt of restrictions on their education, their social lives and what they can wear.
India's Tamil-language film industry is in mourning for popular actor and director G Marimuthu, who died of a heart attack on Friday. Marimuthu, who was in his late 50s, collapsed at a TV studio in Chennai and was pronounced dead on arrival at a nearby hospital. He was one of the main actors in the soap opera Ethirneechal (Swimming Against The Tide) and was dubbing scenes for the series when he died. He also acted in more than 50 films. One of his last film roles was as a villain in the recent blockbuster Jailer, the third most successful Indian film at the box office so far this year. Marimuthu's fellow TV actors rushed to the hospital after hearing the news of his death, India Today reported. Marimuthu's cinematic career began in 1990, when he left his home in the southern village of Pasumalaitheri in Theni and headed to Chennai to become a film director.
Hong Kong and cities across southern China are battling flooding caused by the heaviest rains in over 140 years. On Friday, streets and subway stations were under water in Hong Kong as officials shut schools and workplaces. Emergency services said more than 100 people had been taken to hospital and several rescues had taken place - with a black weather warning issued. Pictures show the rain turning streets into raging rivers, flooding shopping centres and public transport. On social media, people were seen climbing on to cars and other elevated platforms to escape the waters, which have risen several metres-high in some areas, blocking off subway entrances.
PM Rishi Sunak has been accused of leaving Jagtar Singh Johal to "rot in jail" in India, after the Foreign Office ruled out intervening in the case. Mr Johal's brother Gurpeet said the government lacked the "political will" to get him home. The Dumbarton man is facing the death penalty, having been detained in India since 2017. Mr Sunak is in Delhi for the G20 Summit but refused to commit to raising the case with Indian PM Narendra Modi. And in a letter to Mr Johal's local MP, Martin Docherty-Hughes, Foreign Office minister Lord Ahmad said: "Having carefully considered the potential benefits and risks to Mr Johal of calling for his release, as well as the likely effectiveness of doing so, we do not believe this course of action would be in his best interests.
Shares in Apple have fallen for a second day in a row after reports that Chinese government workers have been banned from using iPhones. The firm's stock market valuation has fallen by more than 6%, or almost $200bn (£160bn), in the past two days. China is the technology giant's third-largest market, accounting for 18% of its total revenue last year. It is also where most of Apple's products are manufactured by its biggest supplier Foxconn. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported on Wednesday that Beijing had ordered central government agency officials to not bring iPhones into the office or use them for work. The following day, Bloomberg News reported that the ban may also be imposed on workers at state-owned companies and government-backed agencies.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has taken part in a ceremony to reveal what Pyongyang says is its first submarine capable of launching nuclear weapons. State media said the sub strengthened the country's nuclear deterrent by "leaps and bounds". It has been named Hero Kim Kun Ok after a North Korean naval officer and historical figure. A submarine capable of firing nuclear weapons has long been on the list of weapons North Korea wants to build. In photographs released by state media, Mr Kim is seen standing in a shipyard, surrounded by naval officers, and overshadowed by an enormous black submarine. He is quoted as saying that the sub will be one of the navy's main means of "underwater offensive. "
Police investigating the death of Sara Sharif have translated their appeal into Urdu to reach Pakistani nationals. Sara's body was found in her home in Woking on 10 August, a day after her family members flew to Pakistan. Detectives are displaying posters in English and Urdu at the Surrey town's railway station and taxi ranks. Officers who are fluent in Urdu are also supporting the investigation team to help translate information given by members of the public. Surrey Police have also produced a video-format appeal in Urdu. Detectives said they hope to reach Pakistani nationals living in Woking who do not speak English as their first language.
A former British Army interpreter and his wife "cried tears of joy" after the Home Office agreed to grant a visa for their three-year-old son. Sajid, a taxi driver in Greater Manchester, said officials initially blocked his son's application on financial grounds. But after the BBC contacted the Home Office the family got a reprieve. Sajid is now anxiously waiting for Yousuf, who is currently living with his grandparents in Afghanistan. The father moved to the UK in 2016 where he now works in Oldham. He visited Afghanistan in 2019 when he got married, and his son Yousuf was born there. His wife Mena was given a visa to move to the UK but the Home Office refused entry to their child.
Four suspected high-ranking members of a South Korean doomsday cult have been arrested in Fiji. Two were deported, but a legal injunction prevented the others from being ejected, Fiji media report. The Grace Road Church became notorious after 400 of its members moved to Fiji in 2014 claiming they would be safe from imminent natural disaster. Its founder Shin Ok-ju was jailed in 2019 for holding followers captive in Fiji and subjecting them to violence. The Church has built a business empire after arriving in Fiji. It denies it is a cult - as well as allegations of abuse. However, members who have been able to return to South Korea have accused Ms Shin of confiscating their passports and holding them against their will. They have alleged the Church uses forced labour and issues ritual beatings so harsh that they have led to the death of one follower.
The Indian space agency Isro has shared the first images sent by the country's solar observation mission as it makes its way towards the Sun. Aditya-L1 lifted off on Saturday and is on a journey that will take it 1. 5 million km (932,000 miles) from the Earth - 1% of the Earth-Sun distance. It will take four months to reach its destination, Isro says. India's maiden solar mission came just days after the country became the first to land near the Moon's south pole. On Thursday morning, Isro shared two photographs taken on 4 September by a camera mounted on Aditya-L1.

China's exports have dropped for fourth month in a row as the  economy struggles with weak demand at home and abroad. Exports fell 8. 8% in August compared with a year earlier, while imports dropped 7. 3%, official figures show. However, those declines were not as bad as expected and an improvement on the previous month. China is facing several post-pandemic challenges, including a property crisis and weak consumer spending. There has been a slump in global demand for Chinese-made goods in the wake of coronavirus and the ongoing trade dispute with the US. It is having a major impact on a key source of growth for the country's economy.
Five teenagers will head to Singapore after reaching the world finals of an internationally renowned Formula 1 (F1) competition. Team Firestorm, of St John's College in Cardiff, are from the only school in Wales to make it to the final stage. They will race an air-powered car, that they have designed themselves, over a 20m (66ft) track. The annual event aims to promote the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) subjects. George Self, 15, is project manager of the team and described his role as someone who "oversees everything". "The style that we've adopted is [that] I co-ordinate, but we all feel like we can actually share ideas," he said. "I think that's important with creative projects. "
Japan on Thursday successfully launched a rocket with a moon lander at its fourth try this year, after previous attempts were foiled by bad weather. The lander, dubbed the "moon sniper", is expected to attempt a Moon landing in February if all goes well. Japan has twice failed to reach the lunar surface in the past year, amid setbacks for its space programme. It is bidding to become only the fifth country to land on the Moon, after the US, Russia, China and India. Two weeks ago, India made history when it successfully landed a spacecraft near the south pole of the Moon. The Japanese spacecraft is projected to land within 100m (328ft) of a location near the Shioli crater, on the near side of the Moon. It is expected to enter the Moon's orbit within four months. It will then spend a month circling the Moon before attempting a landing in February.
Myanmar's detained former leader Aung San Suu Kyi is being denied medical care despite her ill health, her son has said. Kim Aris said the junta ruling the country blocked prison authorities' request for his mother's "urgent care". Sources familiar with the matter told BBC Burmese severe toothaches have left the 78-year-old unable to eat. However, a junta spokesman said Ms Suu Kyi is in good health and gets check-ups from military and civilian doctors. Ms Suu Kyi has been detained since February 2021 when she was ousted by a military coup. In July, she was moved from prison to house arrest in the Burmese capital Nay Pyi Taw, but it is unclear where in the city she is being held. "To deny a sick prisoner access to recommended medical care is callous and cruel," Mr Aris said in a text message to BBC Burmese.
The US space agency Nasa has released a photograph of India's lunar lander on the Moon's surface. It shows Vikram lander as a tiny speck in the centre of the image with "its dark shadow visible against the bright halo surrounding the vehicle". Chandrayaan-3's lander touched down near the Moon's little-explored south pole on 23 August. Nasa said the camera on its Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter had snapped the photograph four days later. Last month, India became the first country to land near the lunar south pole when Vikram lander - carrying a rover called Pragyaan - touched down about 600km (373 miles) from the pole. It also joined an elite club of countries to achieve a soft landing on the Moon, after the US, the former Soviet Union and China. The lander and the rover spent about 10 days on the lunar surface, gathering data and images, with the country's space research agency Isro saying they "exceeded their mission objectives".

US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan has asked China to set aside its issues with India and play a "constructive role" in the upcoming G20 summit. Mr Sullivan said it was up to China if it "wanted to play the role of a spoiler" instead. His remarks come after China confirmed that its leader, Xi Jinping, would not attend the meeting. India will host the summit in the capital Delhi on 9 and 10 September. Neither India nor China has given specific reasons behind Mr Xi's absence. China has said Premier Li Qiang will lead its delegation at the summit instead. India and China have a frosty relationship and tensions between the two countries have worsened since 2020, when their troops were involved in a deadly clash at the Galwan valley in Ladakh.

A Canadian man accused of murdering four members of a Muslim family with his vehicle in London, Ontario, has pleaded not guilty. Nathaniel Veltman, 22, is accused of intentionally targeting the family because of their faith, running them over in 2021. He has been charged with four counts of first-degree murder and one count of attempted murder. Jury selection for the trial has started. Mr Veltman, 22, stood silently in court, CBC News reports. His murder charges include terrorism counts, which means prosecutors must prove his actions were premeditated and deliberate but also motivated by a political, religious or ideological cause. Three generations of the Afzaal family were killed, leaving just one survivor. Salman Afzaal, 46, and his wife Madiha Salman, 44; their daughter Yumna Afzaal, 15; and Mr Afzaal's mother Talat Afzaal, 74, were killed while on an evening walk on 6 June 2021. The couple's nine-year-old son was seriously hurt but survived.
The father of Sara Sharif claimed his daughter's death was an accident, the 10-year-old's grandfather has said. In an interview with the BBC, Muhammad Sharif - the father of Urfan Sharif, Sara's dad - said he saw his son after he arrived in Pakistan. "It was an accident, he didn't tell me how it happened," said Muhammad, and that Urfan had left the UK out of fear. Post-mortem tests have found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". Pakistan police have been hunting for Urfan, his partner and his brother for weeks but have failed to find them. UK police want to speak to the three family members in relation to their murder investigation - but the trio left the UK for Pakistan on 9 August, the day before Sara's body was found in Woking, Surrey. Speaking to the BBC, Muhammad confirmed that he did see his son in Pakistan when Urfan came to Jhelum, the city he was raised in and where many of his family still live.
A row has broken out in India after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government used the term "Bharat" in an official invite for the G20 Summit being sent on behalf of the president. Bharat is the Hindi name for India. The dinner invitation from President Droupadi Murmu to foreign leaders attending the summit describes her as "President of Bharat". Several ministers from the ruling BJP party cheered the move, but opposition leaders questioned its purpose. The move comes amid reports that the government is mulling changing the name of the country officially to Bharat - but there has been no confirmation. All of India's official websites still use the term "government of India" and Ms Murmu is still referred to as the President of India on X (formerly Twitter).

A part of China's Great Wall has been severely damaged by construction workers in central Shanxi province, who used an excavator to dig through it. Police say two people are suspected of trying to create a shortcut for their construction work. The two have been detained and the case is under further investigation. The 38-year-old man and 55-year-old woman were working near the affected area, the 32nd Great Wall. They dug a "big gap" by widening an existing cavity of the Great Wall so that their excavator could pass through it. Police say they wanted to reduce the distance they had to travel. Police also stressed that the two caused "irreversible damage to the integrity of the Ming Great Wall and to the safety of the cultural relics".

Hong Kong's top court has refused to recognise same-sex marriages, but ordered the city to formulate an alternative framework within two years. It is a partial victory for an appeal by pro-democracy activist Jimmy Sham, who had sought official recognition of his marriage to his husband. The Court of Final Appeal rejected this but also said the city had failed to actively provide alternative options. Despite legal challenges, same-sex marriages are not currently allowed. While LGBT advocates have over the years won small victories, there is only limited recognition of same-sex unions legalised outside the territory, in matters regarding taxation and spousal visas for foreign residents. But Tuesday's ruling said that the government's failure to actively provide alternative options - like civil unions - for LGBT couples violates their rights. "The absence of legal recognition of (same-sex partners') relationship is apt to disrupt and demean their private lives together in ways that constitute arbitrary interference," said Justice Patrick Keane.
A Japanese man has pleaded guilty to starting a fire at a popular animation studio that killed 36 people. The Kyoto Animation studio blaze on 18 July 2019 was one of Japan's worst-ever murder cases. Many of those killed were young animators trapped on the upper floor, and another 32 people were injured. While prosecutors are likely to seek the death penalty, Shinji Aoba's defence lawyers are seeking an acquittal, citing mental incompetence. His motives are unclear but reports say Aoba accused Kyoto Animation of stealing his work, which the studio has denied. In 2019, Japan's then-Prime Minister Shinzo Abe described the attack as "too appalling for words". Aoba, 45, who nearly died from burns he himself sustained, faces five charges including murder, attempted murder and arson.
A device "the size of a dinner plate" was left in the abdomen of a woman in New Zealand after she gave birth via a Caesarean in an Auckland hospital. The Alexis wound retractor - a soft tubal instrument used to hold open surgical wounds - was only removed 18 months after her delivery. During this time, the woman endured severe pains and made several doctor trips before it was found on a CT scan. Health regulators said the public hospital system had failed the patient. Initially, district health authorities Te Whatu Ora Auckland had argued that they had not failed to exercise reasonable care and skill. But New Zealand's Health and Disability Commissioner disagreed, in findings released on Monday.
India's lunar lander and rover have been put to bed as the Sun begins to set on the Moon, the country's space research agency Isro has said. They have been put in "sleep mode" and "will fall asleep next to each other once the solar power is depleted and the battery is drained", it said. Isro added that it hoped they would reawaken "around 22 September" when the next lunar day starts. The lander and rover need sunlight to charge their batteries and function. The Vikram lander - carrying a rover called Pragyaan in its belly - touched down on the Moon's little-explored south pole on 23 August. With that India became the first country to land near the lunar south pole. It also joined an elite club of countries to achieve a soft landing on the Moon, after the US, the former Soviet Union and China.
Edinburgh Zoo's giant pandas will finally return to China in December, it has been announced. Tian Tian and Yang Guang have to go back under the terms of a 10-year loan, which was extended by two years due to the Covid pandemic. The pair have failed to produce offspring since their arrival in 2011. The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland (RZSS), which runs Edinburgh Zoo, said the giant pandas have had an "incredible impact" on visitors. The zoo has been paying £750,000 annually to China for the pandas.
US President Joe Biden has said he is "disappointed" that his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping plans to skip the upcoming G20 summit in India. "I am disappointed. . . but I am going to get to see him," Mr Biden told reporters on Sunday, but did not say when that meeting may take place. Beijing said on Monday that its premier Li Qiang would lead China's delegation at the summit in Delhi this week. Mr Xi and Mr Biden last met at the G20 summit in Indonesia last year. US-China ties remain tense despite a flurry of diplomatic visits from Washington this year to revive dialogue. China's foreign ministry neither confirmed nor denied Mr Xi's attendance at the Delhi summit when asked pointedly at Monday's press briefing.

Shares in Chinese property firms have jumped after developer Country Garden reportedly secured an extension to a key debt payment deadline. Major home builders including Country Garden and Evergrande saw their shares rise in Hong Kong on Monday. Investors also welcomed moves by Beijing to step up its support for the faltering economy. It marks some rare, good news for China's crisis-hit real estate industry. Country Garden's Hong Kong-listed shares were around 15% higher on Monday afternoon. The company's shares are still down by more than 60% since the start of this year. Country Garden, which is one of China's biggest property developers, had been due to make payments for a 3. 9 billion yuan (£430m; $540m) onshore private bond on Saturday.

More than 40 people were injured in Taiwan after Typhoon Haikui ripped across the island, uprooting trees and forcing thousands to evacuate. The storm - which made landfall on Sunday on the east coast - was the first to directly hit the island in four years. Amid torrential rain and high winds, two people in a mountainous region were hurt after a falling tree hit a car. Dozens others were injured - mainly by falling debris, said officials. The storm packed winds of up to 200km/h (124 mph) but have been no reports of deaths or any major structural damage. On Monday, clean-up crews were working on restoring services after 160,000 homes lost power the previous day. Although this is typhoon season in the Western Pacific - with 11 so far - Haikui is the first major storm to directly hit Taiwan in four years.
The highest storm alert is in force in Hong Kong as Typhoon Saola is approaching. It could be the strongest storm to hit the region in decades, with the Hong Kong Observatory is warning of winds with mean speeds of 118 km/h. Tens of millions of people in Hong Kong and adjacent areas of mainland China have taken shelter. Emergency shelters have been opening in the city of Shenzhen.
An Afghan refugee who was an interpreter for the British Army says he is "angry" after the government denied entry to the UK for his child. Sajid, a taxi driver in Greater Manchester, said the Home Office believed he could not financially support his three-year-old son Yousef. He says he lives in fear that the Taliban may kidnap his son who is living with his parents in Afghanistan. The Home Office said it had contacted the family for more details. A spokeswoman said: "All applications are considered on evidence provided. " Sajid moved to the UK in 2016 where he now works in Oldham. He visited Afghanistan in 2019 when he got married, and his son Yousef was born there. His wife Mena was given a visa to move to the UK but the Home Office refused entry to their child.
India has launched its first observation mission to the Sun, just days after the country made history by becoming the first to land near the Moon's south pole. Aditya-L1 lifted off from the launch pad at Sriharikota on Saturday at 11:50 India time (06:20 GMT). It will travel 1. 5 million km (932,000 miles) from the Earth - 1% of the Earth-Sun distance. India's space agency says it will take four months to travel that far. India's first space-based mission to study the Solar System's biggest object is named after Surya - the Hindu god of Sun who is also known as Aditya. And L1 stands for Lagrange point 1 - the exact place between the Sun and Earth where the Indian spacecraft is heading.
Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida ate "very delicious" fish sashimi from Fukushima, in a video released by the Japanese government. It follows a row over the discharge into the sea of treated radioactive wastewater from the 2011 Fukushima nuclear meltdown. The United Nations atomic energy regulator says the discharge of filtered water into the Pacific Ocean is safe and will have "negligible" impact on people and the environment. But China, the leading buyer of Japan's fish, announced on Thursday it was making a total ban on its seafood products, due to concerns for consumers' health.

Authorities in India's capital, Delhi, are taking steps to scare away monkeys from venues linked to the G20 summit. Life-size cut-outs of grey langur monkeys - which scare smaller monkeys - have been put up at various places and there are plans to deploy people trained to mimic the animal's sounds. Delhi has a huge monkey population and authorities hope these steps will keep the animals from disrupting the summit. India will host the meeting of G20 leaders on 9 and 10 September. Langurs are an aggressive type of monkey with long tails and dark faces. They are typically controlled on leads by specially trained handlers, who release them once other monkeys are seen. A senior official told PTI news agency that langur cut-outs were being placed in areas heavily infested with monkeys.
A new UN report estimates that hundreds of thousands of people from around the world have been trafficked to South east Asia to run online scams. At least 120,000 people in Myanmar, and another 100,000 in Cambodia, have been forced into working these scams. Most victims are men from Asia, but some have come from further afield such as Africa and Latin America. While the problem has existed for years, the UN report is the first comprehensive study of its scale. As pandemic-related shutdowns saw millions of people stuck in their homes and spending more time online, they became ready targets for the masterminds of online fraud schemes, according to the report.
Foreign Secretary James Cleverly has been holding talks with Chinese officials in Beijing, the first such visit in five years. In a meeting with China's vice president, Mr Cleverly stressed that face-to-face exchanges would help the countries avoid misunderstandings. But ahead of his visit, some UK MPs attacked the government's approach to China as "incoherent". Senior Conservative MP Sir Iain Duncan Smith compared it to "appeasement". Relations between the UK and China have sunk to a new low since 2018, which was the last time a senior UK minister travelled to China for talks. Mr Cleverly has said he would raise human rights violations with Chinese leaders, and ask them to put more pressure on Russia to end its invasion of Ukraine.
India says it has lodged a "strong protest" with China over a new map that lays claim to its territory. Indian media have reported that the map shows the north-eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh and the disputed Aksai Chin plateau as China's territory. It was released by China's ministry of natural resources on Monday. "We reject these claims as they have no basis," India's foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He added that such steps by China "only complicate the resolution of the boundary question". Beijing has not officially responded yet. India's Foreign Minister S Jaishankar also called China's claim "absurd".

A group founded to promote the use of Cantonese in Hong Kong has shut down after authorities raided its founder's family home last week. The government cited the controversial national security law and asked the foundation to take down a three-year-old short story. The raid is seen as another erosion of freedom of expression in the city. The group's founder told the BBC that he decided to shut down the organisation on legal advice. "My biggest concern is the safety of my family members and friends in Hong Kong. I found out that if I did not shut down the organisation, they could keep using the materials online, and harass the people I care about," said Andrew Chan, 28, who teaches Chinese and Cantonese online.

The cause of death of 10-year-old Sara Sharif has not yet been established, an inquest heard. Sara's body was found alone at home in Woking on 10 August, a day after her relatives flew to Pakistan. The precise cause of death was "not yet ascertained" but was likely to be "unnatural", an inquest into her death at Surrey Coroner's Court heard. At the opening of the inquest, coroner Simon Wickens adjourned the hearing for six months while police investigate. Detectives launched an international manhunt following the discovery of Sara's body. The three people who are wanted by the police are Sara's father, Urfan Sharif, 41, his partner, Beinash Batool, 29, and his brother, Faisal Malik, 28.

Two flightless takahe were released at a New Zealand sanctuary in the latest effort to stop some of the world's rarest birds becoming extinct. The pair, Waitaa and Bendigo, sprinted out of their cages to cheers from the crowd at Zealandia in Wellington. Last week, 18 takahe were released in mountains in South Island to try to boost a small population in the wild. Due to predators, takahe were thought extinct at the end of the 19th Century but a small number were found in 1948. Their discovery in remote grasslands of the Murchison Mountains on the South Island sparked conservation efforts that have raised the population to close to 500.

Former Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has had his three-year sentence for corruption suspended, but it is unclear if he will be freed from jail. The Islamabad High Court gave him bail until his appeal over the conviction is heard. However, another court has also ordered the 70-year-old to be kept in custody until Wednesday in a separate case. Mr Khan's lawyers say more than 100 charges have been brought against him since his removal from power last year. These include leaking state secrets and organising violent protests. Various arrest warrants have been issued in relation to these charges. Mr Khan says all the charges against him are politically motivated. The former prime minister's lawyers are seeking a Supreme Court order to prevent him from being detained in any other case, but no date has been set to hear this petition.

Japanese motor industry giant Toyota has suspended operations at all of its assembly plants in its home country due to a glitch in its production system. The move has brought domestic production at the world's biggest-selling car maker to a standstill. The malfunction has meant the firm has not been able to order components. A spokesperson told the BBC that the firm is trying to find the cause of the problem but does not currently believe it is due to a cyber attack. On Tuesday morning, Toyota suspended operations at 12 of its 14 assembly plants in Japan. Later in the day a spokesperson said production at all 14 facilities would be suspended. The company has not yet said when it plans to restart the operations or how much production is expected to be lost due to the stoppage. In total, the 14 plants are estimated to account for around a third of Toyota's global production.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he will not attend the G20 Summit in Delhi next month. India is hosting this year's summit, which will be held in the capital Delhi from 9-10 September. Mr Putin rang Mr Modi and told him that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov would attend the summit on his behalf. The two leaders also discussed several "regional and global issues of mutual concern", India said in a statement. A Russian government spokesperson had said last week that Mr Putin would not attend the summit as he had a "busy schedule". The G20 includes the world's 19 wealthiest countries plus the European Union. India currently holds the G20 presidency, which rotates annually between members.

Terry Gou, a 72-year-old billionaire and founder of iPhone maker Foxconn, has become the latest to join the race for Taiwan's presidency. Mr Gou is a charismatic businessman with a great rags-to-riches story, pots of cash, and serious name recognition. Observers in Taipei say if he was the only candidate standing against the governing Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), Mr Gou would have a good shot. But he isn't. Instead, his candidacy will split the opposition vote three ways in the January 2024 presidential election. In a winner-takes-all presidential system, when there are already two opposition candidates vying to unseat the incumbent party, adding a third probably isn't going to make the task easier. The scenario is a classic case for the "law of holes", which says that if you are in a hole and it's difficult to get out, the first thing to do is stop digging. And Taiwan's opposition appears to be digging its own electoral grave.
A prominent Pakistani human rights lawyer who criticised the powerful military has been re-arrested hours after a court granted her bail. Imaan Mazari-Hazir was due for release on Monday night until she was detained on a second terrorism charge. She was placed in custody a week ago, prompting widespread criticism. Analysts say a crackdown has increased after military installations were attacked in May by crowds protesting at the arrest of former PM Imran Khan. "There has been a gross over-reaction to the events of 9 May. But the establishment doesn't want to be seen as only focused against Mr Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf [PTI] party. So, now they are targeting different segments of the society," prominent journalist Cyril Almeida told the BBC. The basis for the second charge against Ms Mazari-Hazir was not immediately clear. Video footage shows her being arrested outside Adiala jail in Islamabad, where she has been held on judicial remand.
Singapore police have seized about  $735m  including luxury homes, cars and watches - in one of its biggest anti-money laundering probes. Gold bars, designer handbags, wine and S$23m in cash were among the items seized in the raids. Police arrested ten people in the operation, all of whom held foreign passports. Raids of this size are rare in Singapore, which has one of the lowest crime rates in the world. The Singapore Police Force said in a statement that simultaneous raids were held across the city-state on Tuesday. It added that 94 properties, including houses in some of the country's most sought after areas, were seized, along with 50 vehicles.
Thousands of Muslims in Pakistan have set fire to churches and vandalised homes belonging to Christians over claims that two men had desecrated the Quran, police say. The attacks took place in Jaranwala in the province of eastern Punjab. Police said at least four churches had been set on fire, while residents said up to a dozen buildings connected to churches had been damaged. Blasphemy is punishable by death in Pakistan. No-one has ever been executed for it, but dozens have previously been killed by mobs after being accused of the crime.
Canada has been left out as China lifted a restrictions on group tours to multiple countries, including the US and the UK. It suggests a deterioration of relations following Canada's recent accusations that Beijing meddled in its politics. Chinese officials said Canada was excluded over the foreign interference claims. It could have a significant impact on Canada's tourism industry. Chinese tourists were estimated to have injected over C$1bn (£580m;$740m) into the Canadian economy annually in years prior to the Covid pandemic. China's Ministry of Culture and Tourism regulates which countries Chinese tour operators can visit, saying it's done to safeguard citizens travelling abroad. But it has also been viewed as a political tool to advance China's political agenda overseas. Last week, China added 78 countries to its list of approved destinations for group tours, excluding Canada while adding other major G20 countries like the US, Germany, Australia, and South Korea.
People were "brimming with pride" after the Prime Minister spoke at an international Hindu gathering, a British Hindu has said. Rishi Sunak spoke during the nine day recital of the scripture Ram Katha by the spiritual preacher Morari Bapuat at Jesus College, University of Cambridge. Organisers said it was the largest gathering of the UK Hindu community. Meenal Sachdev said people attending were "overwhelmed" at hearing from the UK's first Hindu prime minister. It is the first time that a Hindu spiritual event has been held at Cambridge University, organisers added.

Three people known to 10-year-old Sara Sharif booked one-way tickets to Pakistan, and flew the day before her body was found, BBC News understands. Sara's body was found at her home in Woking, Surrey, on 10 August. The BBC has spoken to a travel agent in the town who said he was contacted by someone known to Sara, wanting tickets for three adults and five children. Police want to speak to three people known to Sara - who they have not named - and who left the UK on 9 August. Surrey Police launched a murder investigation after Sara's body was found alone in the family home 02:50 BST. Speaking to the BBC, the travel agent in Woking identified the person making the booking on the evening of 8 August to travel the following day, whom he said had used his services before. The BBC has spoken to police in Pakistan who have said that no formal approach has been made by the British authorities over the case.
North Korea has said US soldier Travis King crossed into its territory last month because of "inhuman maltreatment and racial discrimination" in the army. The 23-year-old private dashed across the border from South Korea on 18 July while on a guided tour. Private King admitted to crossing illegally and wanted refuge in the North, state news agency KCNA reported. It is the first time Pyongyang has acknowledged detaining the soldier. The claims have not been verified. They appeared in a statement which has so far only been published by the government-controlled KCNA. It did not provide further details about Private King's health or whether the country would accept him as a refugee. Concerns have been growing for the welfare of the US soldier, who has not been heard from or seen since his crossing. The US is trying to negotiate Private King's release with the help of the UN Command, which runs the border area, and has a direct phoneline to the North Korean army.
Vietnamese EV maker VinFast's stock market valuation has soared above Ford and General Motors (GM) on its first day of trading. Shares in the firm, which has yet to make a profit, closed above $37 (£29) each in their New York's debut. That gave VinFast a stock market valuation of $85bn, much higher than Ford's $48bn and GM's $46bn. It comes as motor industry giants and newer manufacturers fight for a slice of the booming EV market. The listing added around $39bn to the wealth of VinFast's chairman and founder Pham Nhat Vuong, who was already Vietnam's richest man. Regulatory filings show he controls 99% of the firm's outstanding shares, mostly through Vietnam's largest conglomerate, Vingroup JSC. That limits the number of shares available for other investors to trade, which can lead to large price swings.
Multiple doctors have advised Farah Nurfirman to leave her hometown Jakarta for her health's sake. The 22-year-old  striggling with asthmatic often wears a mask and carries an inhaler, but the air quality in the most polluted city is not helping. The Indonesian capital, which has long wrestled with air pollution, was ranked the most polluted city on global charts nearly every day last week. President Joko Widodo on Monday even mandated that all civil servants work from home amid worsening air quality. Last week, Jakarta saw its airborne concentration of the pollution particles known as PM2. 5 outpace other heavily polluted cities such as Riyadh, Doha and Lahore, according to live data from Swiss air quality technology company IQAir. The company ranks pollution in major cities in real time every day. Jakarta has also been consistently ranked among the 10 most polluted cities globally since May. The capital city and its surrounding region are home to about 30 million people.
An international manhunt for three people continues following the murder of 10-year-old Sara Sharif. The girl's body was found alone in the early hours of last Thursday morning at her home in Woking, Surrey. Surrey Police said the three people it was trying to locate - who were known to Sara - left the UK the previous day. Sara's mother Olga Sharif said her life "will never be the same again" as she spoke of her loss in an interview with The Sun. Formal identification has yet to take place, and investigators are still at the property where Sara's body was found in Hammond Road. Detectives are working with international authorities to find those they want to speak to in connection with her death. They have released no information about the three people publicly.

Permanent accommodation has been provided to 325 Afghan refugees and all bridging hotels will close on Friday after they were given permanent accommodation. The Home Office has given until the end of August for refugees to leave bridging hotels. Cllr Kelly Middleton said the authority had worked hard to offer the accommodation. Last month, council leader and chair of the Local Government Association (LGA), Shaun Davies, said there was a risk of Afghan families becoming homeless and ending up in temporary accommodation due to a housing shortage.Hotels were not meant to be long-term accommodation for Afghans who fled the Taliban in 2021 and they should not be in them "for months or years on end", a government spokesperson said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government was making every effort to restore peace in the state of Manipur as he addressed the country on its 77th independence day. "I want to tell the people of Manipur that the country is with you," Mr Modi said. On Tuesday, he unfurled the national flag at the historic Red Fort in Delhi. In a speech televised live, he talked about natural disasters, the economy and India's growing population. On Manipur, the prime minister said that a lasting resolution could only be found through peace. "In the last few weeks, Manipur witnessed a wave of violence. Several people lost their lives and our mothers and sisters were dishonoured," he said.
An osteopath who helps care for a 69-year-old elephant at Longleat Safari Park has led workshops in Thailand about how to care for the animals. Keepers from the safari park in Wiltshire travelled to Thailand with renowned Cheltenham osteopath Tony Nevin. He has been treating Asian elephant Anne for more than a decade after she was rescued from a circus. "We've got this whole toolbox of things we can use," Mr Nevin said. Mr Nevin uses hand massage techniques along with laser work and infra-red imagery to care for Anne, who has been at Longleat since 2011. He visits the safari park once a month to look after her, and has taken the skills and insights gained from his time there to teach others how to look after elephants.
China has stopped releasing youth unemployment data, which were seen by some as a key indication of the country's slowdown. The decision is due to changes in the world's second largest economy and its society, a government spokesman said. In June, China's jobless rate for 16 to 24 year olds in urban areas hit a record high of more than 20%. The country's central bank also cut the cost of borrowing on Tuesday in an attempt to help boost growth. Official figures published on Tuesday showed China's overall unemployment rate had risen to 5. 3% in July. At the same time the government said it would temporarily suspend publishing youth joblessness data but gave no timeline for the suspension. A spokesman for the National Bureau of Statistics said the method of calculating unemployment among young people needed to be reconsidered.
Japan's economy grew much faster than expected in the three months to the end of June as the country's weak currency boosted exports. The world's third largest economy saw its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rise by an annualised 6% in the period. It is about twice the rate of growth forecast by economists and marks the biggest rise in almost three years. The fall in the value of the yen helped exporters as Japanese-made goods became cheaper for consumers around the world. Japan's currency has fallen sharply against major currencies in recent months and is down by more 10% versus the US dollar this year. "The weak yen is behind the positive GDP numbers," Fujitsu's chief economist Martin Schulz told the BBC.

Almost 50 people have died in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours in the northern Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. In one of the deadliest incidents, at least nine people died when a temple collapsed in the state's capital, Shimla. Officials fear more people may still be trapped beneath the rubble. Chief Minister Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu said heavy rains triggered landslides and flash floods in the hill state. Hundreds of roads have been closed and parts of the Kalka-Shimla railway have washed away. Mr Sukha posted on X about a flash flood and cloudburst - a sudden, very heavy fall of rain - that had occurred in other parts of the state, in which 14 people had died. He also shared a video of the floodwaters in Mandi, where a torrent of water - that looks much like a river - can be seen moving downhill over main roads and houses. He described the video as "disturbing" and said seven people had been swept away by the water.

A court in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh has sentenced two men to life in prison for raping and murdering two Dalit sisters last year. Two other convicts were found guilty of destroying evidence and were sent to jail for six years each. The convicts are likely to appeal in the high court. The teenaged girls were found hanging from a tree in Lakhimpur district in September. The gruesome crime had made headlines and sparked global outrage. Police had arrested six people - four of them were convicted on Friday while judgements against two minors are pending. On Friday, a special court that deals with cases of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) convicted two of the four adults of kidnapping, gangraping and murdering the girls. On Monday, Judge Rahul Singh described the crime as "rarest of the rare" and said that the two convicts' life sentences would "run until their last breath". They have also been ordered to pay 41,000 rupees ($500; £390) each as fine.
At least 30 people are reported missing after a mudslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar. The mountainous town of Hpakant in the Kachin state is home to the world's biggest and most lucrative jade mines. Many of those affected are believed to be locals digging through the mud along the cliffs, many of whom work and live in abandoned mining pits. Lethal landslides are common in the area when heavy monsoon rain pummels Myanmar between May and October. At least 162 people died in a landslide in the same area in July 2020, while an accident in 2015 left more than 110 dead. Mining operations had been suspended because of the rainy season. However, many of those caught in the accident, which happened at about 15:30 local time on Sunday, were independent scavengers looking to find jade. The intense rain had loosened massive piles of earth more than 150m in height, left over from excavations by mining companies, sending the dirt and debris hurtling down the cliff and sweeping up miners on the way.

China has called Taiwan's vice president William Lai a "troublemaker" for his ongoing visit to the US. Mr Lai, a frontrunner in Taiwan's upcoming presidential election, visited the US on his way to Paraguay. Beijing, which considers Taiwan a breakaway province, has increasingly voiced its disapproval of meetings between US and Taiwanese lawmakers. China on Sunday accused Washington of engaging Taiwan in political activities under the guise of a stopover. Mr Lai, a candidate of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) was in New York over the weekend. He gave a speech at an informal gathering, pledging to protect Taiwan's sovereignty in the face of "authoritarianism". He is scheduled to also stop in San Francisco on his way back to Taiwan later this week.
A high school in north-eastern Cambodia has been forced to close temporarily after thousands of unexploded explosives were discovered. Cambodia remains one of the world's most heavily mined countries, 48 years after the end of its brutal civil war. At that time, the Queen Kosomak High School in Kratie province was being used as a military station. Photos show tons of rusty explosives neatly stacked in rows, with grenades and anti-tank launchers among them. In total, more than 2,000 pieces of ordnance was discovered over three days - Heng Ratana, director general of the Cambodian Mine Action Centre, told AFP news agency. He said the munitions were found when the ground was being cleared to expand a garden, and if the whole school was cleared, more would likely be dug up.

Miss Universe Organisation (MUO) has cut ties with its Indonesian franchise after several contestants alleged sexual abuse days before the pageant's crowning ceremony in Jakarta. Contestants said finalists were unexpectedly asked to strip for "a body check for scars and cellulite" and some said they were photographed topless. The US-based MUO said it was clear the franchise had not lived up to its brand standards, ethics, or expectations. Jakarta police are probing the claims. MUO also said it was also cancelling this year's pageant in Malaysia which is run by the same company, PT Capella Swastika Karya. Miss Universe Organisation thanked the women that filed the complaints for their bravery and reiterated "providing a safe place for women " was its priority.

Hundreds of people in South Korean took to the streets of Seoul on Saturday to protest against Tokyo's contentious plan to release treated nuclear waste water into the Pacific Ocean. Tokyo is set to release the water from the tsunami-hit Fukushima nuclear plant later this month. It has been approved by the UN nuclear watchdog, and a South Korean assessment found it meets international standards. But protesters fear marine life will be destroyed and seafood contaminated. Marching in central Seoul, they held signs reading "Protect the Pacific Ocean" and "Nuclear Power? No Thanks! ". Choi Kyoungsook of activist group Korea Radiation Watch said radioactive substances in the water "will eventually destroy the marine ecosystem". "The sea is not just for the Japanese government, but for all of us and for mankind," she said.
A senior officer is being investigated for gross misconduct by the police watchdog after four Vietnamese men were found dead following a mill fire. The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) said two other officers were being investigated for misconduct. It said it was assessing "a potential breach of professional standards". The four men's remains were only found by demolition workers in July 2022, two months after the blaze at Bismark House Mill in Oldham, Greater Manchester. Emergency services initially thought no-one had been in the property when the fire broke out on 7 May. The IOPC investigation into the conduct of the three officers - regarding contact with the dead men's families - started in September following a referral from Greater Manchester Police (GMP).
Country Garden, which is one of China's biggest property developers, has warned that it could see a loss of up to $7. 6bn (£6bn) for the first six months of the year. The announcement is the latest sign of the major issues faced by the world's second largest economy. This week official figures showed China had slipped into deflation for the first time in more than two years. Exports have also fallen sharply, while youth unemployment is at a record high. Shares in Country Garden Holdings were down by more than 5% in Hong Kong trade on Friday afternoon. Country Garden "is expected to record a net loss ranging from approximately RMB45 billion [$6. 24bn; £4. 9bn] to RMB55 billion for the six months ended 30 June 2023," the company said in an announcement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
India's Tata Group has unveiled a new logo, branding and livery for Air India as part of a multi-million dollar transformation of the former national carrier. The logo includes a design with golden, red and purple colours, and will replace the old one of a red swan. The rebranding exercise comes years after Tata Group bought the debt-ridden airline in October 2021. The airline was officially handed over in January 2022. CEO Campbell Wilson said the company will not completely do away with the airline's iconic mascot of a cheerful Maharaja, which has been one of India's most recognisable symbols. But they would "move beyond" it while retaining the mascot's elements that spell hospitality and service. Air India was founded by the Tata group in 1932 before it was taken over by the government in 1953.
The bodies of 23 Rohingyas who were fleeing Myanmar's Rakhine state have been recovered after their boat sank. Thirty others are still missing, while eight people are reported to have survived the accident. The survivors said they were trying to reach Malaysia when their boat carrying more than 50 passengers foundered and was abandoned by its crew on Sunday. Every year thousands of Rohingyas attempt the perilous sea journey to Malaysia or Indonesia. They are escaping persecution in Myanmar and overcrowded refugee camps in Bangladesh. Those who died this week include 13 women and 10 men, all Rohingya Muslims, a rescue team told BBC Burmese.
India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defeated a no-confidence vote in the parliament after a three-day debate. His government was not expected to lose the vote as his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies have a majority. Mr Modi criticised the vote as an attempt by opposition parties to "defame India". Opposition leaders say the vote was moved to force him to speak on the ethnic clashes in Manipur state. More than 150 people have died and tens of thousands have been displaced in Manipur since May, when clashes broke out between the majority Meitei group and the tribal Kuki minority. Mr Modi publicly addressed the violence weeks later, after a video that showed two women being paraded naked by a mob sparked global outrage.

People are being asked for their views on plans to plant more trees in four Cornish towns as part of the Forest for Cornwall. The project would be split across two planting seasons starting this autumn. It plans to focus on specific sites with some of the lowest numbers of urban trees in Cornwall and the UK - in Newquay, Torpoint, Callington and Saltash. Residents are being asked to look at plans and complete a questionnaire. The plans have images showing what the towns will look like once the trees have been planted, and have been drawn up by a team selecting species that are suitable to each location. The Forest for Cornwall team has applied to the Forestry Commission's Urban Tree Challenge Fund for support. Councillor Martyn Alvey, portfolio holder for environment and climate change, said: "Our Forest for Cornwall has now recorded more than 600,000 new trees planted since 2019, but Cornwall still has some of the lowest urban tree canopy cover in the country. "

An airport's plan to increase its flight limit by 40% is a "slap in the face" for the Earth's climate, environmental campaigners have said. Farnborough Airport aims to move from up to 50,000 flights a year to 70,000. The Hampshire airfield, which mainly serves private jets, said it needed to expand to meet demand by the year 2040. However, aviation campaign group Safe Landing said "polluting private jets catering to a handful of wealthy super-emitters" should be curtailed.

Ships docking in Portsmouth are set to be able to plug into the National Grid, in a bid to reduce air pollution. The new government-funded Sea Change system means vessels in three berths at Portsmouth International Port will not have to rely on running engines. Portsmouth City Council, which owns the port, said the shore power system could save the equivalent of 20,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions a year. It said the project could improve air quality around the port. It comes ahead of the arrival of two hybrid ships from Brittany Ferries, which are due to begin sailing in the spring of 2025 and will be able to make use of shore power.

Sunday has become the seventh day in a row for temperatures to exceed 30C (86F), as the unprecedented September heatwave goes on. It comes as Saturday was provisionally named the hottest day of the year so far, with 32. 7C recorded in Heathrow. But the heat will largely be centred on southern England, with many parts of the UK soon facing thundery downpours. A yellow Met Office weather warning for thunderstorms is in place from 14:00 BST to 23:59 on Sunday. The alert applies to most of Northern Ireland, parts of northern England and Wales, and parts of southern Scotland. Up to 50mm (2in) of rain could fall in under two hours and "large hail and lightning are likely additional hazards", the Met Office said. The warning means some people could also be in store for flash flooding and strong winds - with possible interruptions to road access and public transport.
Tackling climate change needs a rapid transformation of the way our world works, travels, eats and uses energy, according to an important UN review. This is the first "global stocktake" to examine the radical changes of countries to slow planet warming emissions since the Paris agreement was signed in 2015 by UN. While progress has been made, efforts now need to be massively scaled up. The report calls for "radical decarbonisation" with a fast phase out of fossil fuels without carbon capture. Burning fossil fuels like oil, gas and coal to generate electricity emits carbon dioxide, which is the main driver of climate change. Carbon capture in industrial processes and power stations stops most of the CO2 produced from being released, and either reuses it or stores it underground.
A scholarship for MSc energy storage course with £15,000 to cover full tuition fees, plus a stipend announced for energy storage students at Ulster University will help create "radical change" in our energy systems. The award has been funded by Action Renewables to mark the charity's 20th anniversary. It will provide one full-time student on the . Energy storage is a key part of tackling climate change. It allows excess renewable power generation to be stored and used later. The MSc course explores thermal and electrical storage technologies and how intermittent renewable energy sources can be mixed into the existing energy system. It is based at the university's School of Architecture and the Built Environment in Belfast.
Climate protesters hit Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary with two cream pies during a press briefing in Brussels. The airline boss was set to speak to the media about a petition he was presenting to Ursula Von Der Leyen, the president of the European Commission. As he was setting up, two protesters hit him with pies to the face and back, with one declaring: "Welcome in Belgium! " Mr O'Leary responded by saying "well done" before wiping cream from his face and continuing with the planned press briefing. He said he loved the cream cakes and described them as delicious.

African leaders have proposed a global carbon tax regime in a joint declaration for fighting with climate changes . The Nairobi Declaration capped the three-day Africa Climate Summit in Kenya's capital. The document, released on Wednesday, demanded that major polluters commit more resources to help poorer nations. African heads of state said they will use it as the basis of their negotiating position at November's COP28 summit.The African Climate Summit was dominated by discussions on how to mobilise financing to adapt to increasingly extreme weather, conserve natural resources and develop renewable energy.
A city council is set to miss its 2025 carbon neutral target because it is still burning too much gas. Bristol City Council, which declared a "climate emergency" four years ago, is forecast to emit almost 1,700 tonnes of carbon in 2028. A cabinet report says it is because many buildings on the council's estate are still burning large amounts of gas. Councillors have now signed off on plans to renew the authority's gas supply contract for another four years. While progress is being made on reducing carbon emissions the latest figures show there is still a long way to go, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service. Despite reducing its demand for gas, the council is forecast to miss a crucial target of becoming carbon neutral on its own estate by 2025.

England's first Green-controlled council wants to join a special network to help tackle climate change. Mid Suffolk District Council voted to become a member of the UK100 climate network - a group of local council leaders who share information on the best approach to climate measures. Andrew Stringer, council cabinet member for heritage, planning and infrastructure, said it was a "logical step forward". A membership pledge will now be signed by council leader Andy Mellen before the enrolment can be approved.
Around six billion tonnes of sand is dredged from the world's oceans every year, endangering marine life and coastal communities, the UN says. Sand is the most exploited natural resource in the world after water and is used to produce concrete and glass. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) said some vessels were acting as vacuum cleaners, dredging both sand and micro-organisms that fish feed on. This means that life may never recover in some areas. The new data coincides with the launch of a new analysis tool called Marine Sand Watch that monitors dredging activities using marine tracking and artificial intelligence. "The scale of environmental impacts of shallow sea mining activities and dredging is alarming," said Pascal Peduzzi, who heads UNEP's analytics centre GRID-Geneva.

Heavy rain has caused major flooding across Spain with a red weather warning currently in place across the Madrid, Toledo and Cádiz regions. The mayor of Madrid, the capital of Spain, told people to stay in their homes - calling the rainfall "exceptional". There have been 190 call-outs for firefighters to help clear flooded roads in Madrid so far. On Sunday a football match between Atletico Madrid and Sevilla was suspended due to the rain. A lot of the rain has fallen by the sea, on the east coast of Spain. Some of these areas include Cádiz, Tarragona and Castelló.
Council vehicles should be run on vegetable oil to cut carbon emissions, a fuel supplier has said. Oil4Wales founder Colin Owens claimed hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) could be used instead of diesel fuel. He said it could be used as a "stepping stone" towards cleaner solutions, delaying the need to buy replacement electric vehicles. But an energy expert has warned doing so would only act as a stopgap. The fuel, which is made from vegetable and animal oils or used cooking oil, currently costs around £1. 94 a litre for road users - compared to around £1. 51 for standard white diesel.
A record-breaking cyclist has completed a 3,000-mile ride around the circumference of mainland Britain on a handmade bamboo bike. Kate Strong, 44, holds three cycling world records and a triathlon championship. Ms Strong embarked on her 90-day challenge to raise awareness of the climate crisis. She set off from Westminster on 5 June, cycling to Norwich for her first official stop. She then travelled to places including Edinburgh, John O'Groats, Glasgow and Liverpool, camping along the way. She then cycled around the coast of Wales, through Cardiff and Bristol, before reaching Land's End in Cornwall. Ms Strong crossed the finish line at Parliament Square on Saturday afternoon, to the cheers of supporters.

A Rathlin Island project has been granted £4. 625 million over the next two years to innovate on waste management and other environmental challenges. The funding comes from the Arts and Humanities Research Council. The project, called Future Island-Island, will be one of the UK's four new Green Transition Ecosystems (GTEs). It will look at sustainable resource management and protecting the island from any negative impacts of tourism. The project aims to bolster awareness and improve public engagement around waste management. It will be led by Ulster University in partnership with Queen's University Belfast. It will use Rathlin Island as an innovation test centre. Its six pillars include plastic pollution, protecting natural habitats and waste management.

Plans to introduce a zero-emission zone (Zez) in central London from 2025 have been shelved by City Hall. The scheme, which was detailed in the London mayor's 2018 transport strategy, proposed a charge be introduced for all petrol and diesel vehicles. The existing Ultra Low Emission Zone (Ulez) was expanded to include every borough in London on Tuesday. City Hall said it would support councils that wished to introduce a Zez within their boroughs. The proposal laid out in the 2018 strategy was to "implement zero-emission zones in town centres from 2020 and aim to deliver a zero-emission zone in central London from 2025". The strategy also proposed a zero-emission zone for inner London by 2040 and a London-wide zone by 2050.

It's dark, dirty and more like an I'm A Celebrity Bushtucker Trial - but the World Bog Snorkelling Championships inspired one woman to walk again. Yes, you heard me. It's a real event and gave Julia Galvin a goal to go from hospital bed to bog trench in a year. People from around the world compete in a 120-yard snorkel in a muddy bog that's a Lonely Planet's top 50 must-do experience - and it's on this weekend. Julia said the snorkelling festival in mid Wales "saved my life". She was laid up in hospital unable to walk, aged 25, with a back problem and sciatica down both legs, needing a walking frame to get around and taking 16 tablets a day to ease her pain. "My life wasn't really worth living and I was going have surgery on my back but doctors said I was on too many tablets to operate," Julia recalled.

A catastrophic die-off of emperor penguin chicks has been observed in the Antarctic, with up to 10,000 young birds estimated to have been killed. The sea-ice underneath the chicks melted and broke apart before they could develop the waterproof feathers needed to swim in the ocean. The birds most likely drowned or froze to death. The event, in late 2022, occurred in the west of the continent in an area fronting on to the Bellingshausen Sea. It was recorded by satellites.More than 90% of emperor penguin colonies are predicted to be all but extinct by the end of the century, as the continent's seasonal sea-ice withers in an ever-warming world.
Tropical Storm Harold made landfall on the south-east coast of Texas on Tuesday, bringing more heavy rain and high winds to the southern US. The storm has dumped up to 7in (17. 7cm) of rain in some parts of the state. By late Tuesday afternoon, the storm had been downgraded to a tropical depression, but heavy rains continued. More than 23,000 people were without power in the Lone Star state on Tuesday night. The Texas deluge arrived a day after historic amounts of rain flooded parts of the south-western US. California and Nevada were cleaning up on Tuesday after seeing historic amounts of rain from Storm Hilary, which caused widespread flooding. Tropical Storm Harold made landfall on Tuesday morning local time on Texas' Padre Island in the Gulf of Mexico.

A water shortage in an area of Suffolk has led to some businesses being refused permission to set up or told they could not expand, the BBC has learned. The policy by Essex & Suffolk Water (ESW) has affected those using large volumes of water like manufacturers, farmers and food processors. A leading councillor said they could be "throttled back" from expanding. ESW said there was enough water for current needs and new housing, but not for business growth. The company's policy, which has been in place for about 12 months, has affected an area around the town of Eye in Suffolk, known as the Hartismere Water Resource Zone. It has been put in place until 2032, when new water supply schemes in Hartismere should be operational.
A major wildfire on the Spanish island of Tenerife has led to the evacuation of five villages. The fire has spread some 8 sq km (800 hectares) since it started in a nature reserve on the north-east coast of the island late on Tuesday evening. Local authorities have cut off access to the forest around the Mount Teide volcano, Spain's highest peak, and say secondary fires have now broken out. Helicopters spraying water have been seen flying over the area. The main blaze is spreading through woodland and ravines in the Candelaria and Arafo areas, making it difficult for firefighters to tackle. Rosa Davila, president of the Tenerife Council, said aircraft were necessary because it was a steep area. "The blaze has a huge potential, we have asked for additional means," she said on local radio. The villages of Arrate, Chivisaya, Media Montaña, Ajafoña and Las Lagunetas were evacuated on Wednesday morning.
The water temperature in Lough Neagh is rising alarmingly fast researchers have said. The temperature in the largest freshwater body of water in the UK and Ireland is 1C higher than in 1995. A report also said more than twice as much carbon was stored in ground around the lough as previously thought. The Lough Neagh Partnership (LNP) commissioned the study as it took up a lease on land on the south-west shoreline, with a view to restoring it. Many peatlands around the lough have been milled over the years for compost and fuel. The Climate Change Impact and Carbon Storage Study took core samples round the entire shoreline of the lough to assess the carbon stored there. In some cases, those samples went 9m down below grass fields. The report revealed a total of more than 14 million tonnes of carbon stored in the catchment area.
Young people called for improvements to climate education in the first-ever Mock Education Ministers Summit. Over the weekend, hundreds of youth leaders attended a two-day virtual summit to discuss, negotiate and hear from environmental activists. The delegates created the first unified definition for climate education and called on education ministers to make five key changes. An Oxford University student was one of the three UK representatives. The summit was organised by youth-led organisation Mock COP, which calls for world leaders to take meaningful climate actions.
A Montana judge has sided with 16 young activists finding that the state violated their right to a clean and healthful environment, which the state constitution guarantees. The plaintiffs, between ages five and 22, alleged the state's pro-fossil fuel policies contributed to climate change. Similar cases have been brought forward by other youths, but this was the first case to go to trial. The state attorney general plans to appeal the ruling. Montana has piercing blue skies that appear bigger and brighter than just about anywhere else in the country. With its tall mountain ranges that open onto vast green fields, it gives 360 degrees of picture-perfect views.
Jason Momoa has warned tourists not to travel to Maui as the island struggles to recover from devastating wildfires. The native Hawaiian and Aquaman actor wrote on Instagram: "Maui is not the place to have your vacation right now. "Do not travel," he said. "Do not convince yourself that your presence is needed on an island that is suffering this deeply. " More than 90 people are confirmed dead in fires that destroyed towns including historic Lahaina. Momoa also shared a video in which he said that the Hawaiian community "needs time to heal, grieve and restore". "That means the less visitors on the island taking up critical resources that have become extremely limited the better," he said. The 44-year-old's comments came as residents of Maui said that they were appalled by the sight of tourists swimming at the beach while residents were still counting the dead.

More wind and solar farms would industrialise the Welsh countryside and affect about 50,000 acres of land, according to a rural charity. Offshore wind and rooftop solar should be the preferred way to cut carbon emissions, says the Campaign for the Protection of Rural Wales (CPRW). But a company proposing five energy parks in Wales said a mix will be needed to reach net zero by 2050. The Welsh government said a range of technologies was required. Wales currently has 44 operational wind farms and 123 solar farms, according to research by the CPRW. It has published a map showing those existing renewable energy projects and the locations of a further 34 wind farms and 92 solar farms being proposed.

Over 50 authors have called on the Edinburgh International Book festival to cut ties with one of its sponsors over climate concerns. A joint letter urges organisers to put pressure on Baillie Gifford over its investment in fossil fuels. The festival director later called for an "open discussion" about the issue during the event, which starts on Saturday. Baillie Gifford has said it is not a significant investor in the sector. Zadie Smith, Ali Smith and Gary Younge are among those who have signed the open letter ahead of the literary festival. It comes after climate activist Greta Thunberg last week cancelled an appearance at the event.
A city councillor convicted of smashing the windows of a Norwich bank said she had no plans to resign. Green Party councillor Amanda Fox and another woman, who were members of environmental activist group Extinction Rebellion, attacked Barclays on St James' Court in April 2021. Leader of Norwich City Council, Mike Stonard, said Fox's position was "untenable" following her conviction. Fox said "no violence was directed against anyone in the bank". "I have been overwhelmed by the messages of support that I have received," she said. "Barclays continue to be Europe's biggest funder of the fossil fuels driving the climate crisis. " She continued that she and her accomplice "had taken measures to ensure the building had been empty".
A cement works has plans to pipe  £400m  of carbon dioxide a year out to sea to fight climate change. Cement giant Hanson claims capturing carbon could play a vital role in the UK reaching its net-zero targets. The company is planning a £400m facility at its Padeswood plant in Flintshire, making it the first carbon capture-enabled cement works in the UK. While Greenpeace objects to some uses of carbon capture, it accepted it may be necessary for cement production. Hanson is one of several companies chosen by the UK government to progress plans for carbon-reducing solutions as part of the HyNet project.
The boss of TUI has said heatwaves and climate change could prompt people to take their holidays in spring or autumn and choose cooler destinations. Sebastian Ebel, chief executive of the tour firm, said holidaymakers might choose to travel to Greece in November, benefiting the travel industry. Destinations such as the Belgian or Polish coast might become more popular, he added. TUI said July's wildfires in Rhodes had cost the firm €25m (£21. 5m). TUI said 8,000 of its customers had been evacuated from the Greek island. However, the German company said 80% of its guests on the island were unaffected. Mr Ebel claimed the climate was "not as it was described" and said he went to Rhodes on "the first day" of the blazes starting and he was "surprised" because the fire was not visible.

Zac Goldsmith - who quit the government over its alleged climate change "apathy" - has said he is "very tempted" to support Labour. The Conservative peer criticised his own party for not having "a clear answer" to what he called the "biggest challenge we've ever faced". He told the BBC's HARDtalk he was "desperately hoping the Conservative Party comes to its senses. " But he was seriously looking at switching his support to Labour. "The simple truth is there is no pathway to net zero and there's no solution to climate change that does not involve nature, massive efforts to protect and restore the natural world. "And at the moment, I'm not hearing any of that from the Labour Party if I do, if there's a real commitment now the kind of commitment, frankly, that we saw when Boris Johnson was the leader, then I'd be very tempted to throw my weight behind that party and support them in any way I could. "
Proposals for designs for new buildings and extensions to meet low-carbon heating system called fosil fuel boiler  have been "pushed back", the government has said. The move, which will withhold approvals  in new builds, had been due to be rolled out in August but will now start in January. It is part of the Isle of Man government's commitment to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050. A government spokesman said the delay would "ensure the public are prepared". From 1 January 2024, building control authorities will require applications to include low-carbon heating systems. The government spokesman said the change was in preparation for a legal ban on fossil fuel boilers in new properties, which will come into force a year later. From then, it would be "illegal to install a fossil fuel heating system in new buildings and extensions, including where planning permission or building control had already been granted," he said.
Government departments should cut ties with Greenpeace in the wake of last week's protest at Rishi Sunak's house, No 10 has said. Activists from the group scaled the prime minister's home in his North Yorkshire constituency last Thursday during an anti-oil demonstration. Five people were arrested by police and released on bail pending further inquiries. The PM's spokesman said engagement with the group was no longer "appropriate". "We obviously don't think that people who are accused of breaking the law should have a seat at the table in discussions with government," he added.
At least 10 people have died and 18 are missing after torrential rains battered Hebei province in northern China. Officials evacuated more than half its 11. 5 million people by noon (04:00 GMT) on Saturday from areas thought to be at high risk of landslides and floods. Storm Doksuri, which hit mainland China last week, has brought the worst rains in 140 years. China's weather agency issued a red alert to warn people about the "geological risks". Hebei province, neighbouring Beijing is said to be one of the worst affected areas. Clean-up operations are under way after the floods engulfed residential homes, destroyed infrastructure and submerged entire districts.

A storm with hail and heavy rain has hit the southwest German city of Reutlingen. City officials have said the hail formed 30cm (12 inches) drifts in some areas and snowploughs were deployed. About 250 firefighters took part in the clean up, in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.
Travel disruption will be worsened by climate change unless more money is spent on the UK's transport networks, a government advisor has warned. Intense rainfall and heatwaves have hit road and rail travel with flash floods, landslips and equipment failures. Sir John Armitt said the UK must either accept more travel disruption or spend more money on maintenance and upgrades. Network Rail's safety and engineering director Martin Frobisher said companies were "racing to catch up". He insisted more was being spent than ever and technology was improving, but "every year we. . . break records on heat, on rain, on wind". Sir John, chair of the National Infrastructure Commission, said leaders including himself may previously have "underestimated the impact of climate change and the rate at which we're seeing those changes".
As the flooding emergency in western Beijing turned deadlier at the beginning of this week, taking out bridges, washing away dozens of cars at a time, and wreaking havoc on the city, the decision was made to divert the raging waters. The effect was almost immediate. The pressure came off in the capital, but the water had to go somewhere. By Tuesday, it was hitting Zhuozhou in neighbouring Hebei Province with a force the locals didn't expect. The town was soon cut off from the outside as its buildings became islands. Soon the electricity and drinking water were gone. They were in trouble. Boats were the obvious choice for emergency teams to reach people. But with the initial rescue effort focused on Beijing with its much larger population, officials there said they were desperately short of watercraft for the task at hand.
The oceans have hit their hottest ever recorded temperature as they soak up warmth from climate change, with dire implications for our planet's health. The average daily global sea surface temperature beat a 2016 record this week, according to the EU's climate change service Copernicus. It reached 20. 96C (69. 73F) - far above the average for this time of year. Oceans are a vital climate regulator. They soak up heat, produce half Earth's oxygen and drive weather patterns. Warmer waters have less ability to absorb carbon dioxide, meaning more of that planet-warming gas will stay in the atmosphere. And it can also accelerate the melting of glaciers that flow into the ocean, leading to more sea level rise. Hotter oceans and heatwaves disturb marine species like fish and whales as they move in search of cooler waters, upsetting the food chain. Experts warn that fish stocks could be affected.

Grant Shapps is being urged in the "strongest possible terms" to block drilling at Rosebank - the UK's largest undeveloped oil field. Fifty MPs and peers, from all major parties, have written to the energy secretary to demand a rethink. It comes after the government said it would issue hundreds of new licences for oil and gas exploration in the North Sea. Rosebank's approval by regulators is expected soon. A Department for Energy Security and Net Zero spokesperson said: "No decision has yet been made regarding the proposed Rosebank field and no timescale has ever been set for this decision. "More widely, we are building a future diverse energy mix that is cleaner, cheaper and more secure and avoids an increased reliance on foreign oil and gas imports, helping us remain a trailblazer in our ambitions to reach net zero by 2050. "

Climate change is seeing a species of migratory butterfly stay in the UK over the winter instead of returning to Europe and Africa, experts say. A charity's butterfly count in July recorded a four-fold increase in sightings of the majestic red admiral - continuing a long-term trend. Sightings rose by more than 175,000 compared to the same period last year. Butterfly Conservation said "there can be no doubt climate change is the driver" behind the increase. The red admiral is a common sight in British and Irish gardens with its distinctive dark brown body, red stripes and white patches, but is actually a migrant species from continental Europe and North Africa. It migrates north to the UK each spring and summer, and the females lay eggs. The experts say it appears many more are staying in southern England over the winter months, leading to more sightings this year.

Hundreds of participants at the 25th World Scout Jamboree in Buan, South Korea have been hit by heat exhaustion. Some 400 cases were reported on the first night of the event on Tuesday, with many treated at a makeshift hospital at the campsite. Temperatures have hit 35C (95F) in North Jeolla province, where the event is being held, amid a heatwave warning. Scouts from the US, Bangladesh and the UK have been affected, local media is reporting. The UK contingent is expected to be the largest in South Korea, numbering about 4,500 of the total 43,000 in attendance. The UK Foreign Office said the situation was being closely monitored. "Consular officials are on site to support attendees as planned and in line with standard practice for such events," a spokesperson for the Foreign Office added.
A future pandemic and extreme weather caused by climate change are among the key risks facing the UK, according to a new government register. It has been published to help the UK prepare for "worst-case scenarios" of some of the most serious threats. Officials say the list, first published in 2008, shares some previously classified information and is the most transparent ever. It includes risks posed by advances in artificial intelligence (AI) systems. The National Risk Register, produced by the Cabinet Office, warns these could result in chronically harmful misinformation and disinformation, or reduce the UK's economic competitiveness. Deputy Prime Minister Oliver Dowden, who heads the Cabinet Office, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This isn't supposed to be alarmist, this is about reasonable worst-cased scenarios, so that businesses, organisations from the Red Cross to local government can plan accordingly. "
A typhoon has lashed southern Japan, forcing evacuations and cutting off power to one-third of homes on the Okinawa islands. Slow-moving Khanun - the third typhoon to hit East Asia in as many weeks - threatens to worsen the heaviest rains in Beijing in more than a century. The deluge has killed at least 34 people in China so far. Experts say that extreme weather events like this will become more frequent because of global warming. Khanun follows two other typhoons, Talim and Doksuri, a super storm, which also drenched the Philippines and Taiwan, killing more than 30 people, in the last few weeks. It was expected to make landfall on China's north-east coast on Wednesday but forecasts now say it is more likely to turn towards the Japanese mainland without hitting China. Japan's tropical Okinawa islands are expected to face the brunt of Khanun's 252km/h (156mph) gusts on Wednesday.
Northern Ireland has had its wettest July on record, with figures going back to 1836, according to the Met Office. Provisional figures show more than double the normal amount of rain fell during the month, with 185. 4mm recorded. The previous record was 185. 2mm, set back in July 1936. It will come as no great surprise to hear that July 2023 was wet, and exceptionally wet, in parts of Northern Ireland. Rainfall records were also broken at individual weather stations, including at Castlederg, in County Tyrone, which recorded about two and a half times its normal amount of rainfall for the month. A lot of that fell when heavy and persistent rain caused flooding in the County Tyrone town, as well as parts of County Donegal, in the Republic of Ireland, on 23 July.

Weather warnings are in place across England and Wales on Wednesday as the UK's wet and windy weather continues. A yellow alert for storms stretching from London to Manchester, covering much of the Midlands and Wales, will last from 09:00 to 19:00 BST. Another yellow warning is in place throughout the day for strong wind due to hit the south coast of England. The Met Office confirmed last month was one of the wettest Julys on record, according to provisional data. It said the UK had its sixth rainiest July since data started being collected, and its wettest since 2009, with 140. 1mm of rainfall, more than two thirds higher than the average for this time of year. Northern Ireland has had its wettest July on record, the Met Office data shows. The region saw more than double its average rainfall (185. 4mm). And Greater Manchester, Lancashire and Merseyside also saw their wettest July since records began, all seeing long periods of rain.
At least 11 people have died and 13 others are missing in deadly rains in Beijing as China braces for the third typhoon in as many weeks. The remnants of last week's super storm Doksuri flooded Beijing for the fourth straight day on Tuesday even as another typhoon approached the eastern coast. More than 50,000 people in the city have been evacuated so far, according to state media. The flooding has hit several districts, disrupting train services and traffic. At least a dozen people were killed in the Philippines and Taiwan as Doksuri passed through at the end of last week on its way to China. Heavy rains are likely to persist this week, and flooding could worsen in northern regions around Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei province, the emergency management ministry has warned. At least nine people have died in Hebei, officials say.
Two Just Stop Oil activists who scaled the Dartford Crossing bridge have lost their Court of Appeal bid for reduced sentences. Morgan Trowland, 40, and Marcus Decker, 34, were suspended over the Queen Elizabeth II Bridge for about 37 hours. Trowland was jailed for three years, and Decker for two years and seven months, following a trial. Their appeals were rejected by three senior judges, who said the sentences were "not excessive". At a hearing in London last week, the protesters' lawyers made a bid to challenge the "extraordinary length" of Trowland's three-year sentence and Decker's jail term of two years and seven months. But Lady Justice Sue Carr, sitting with Mrs Justice Johanna Cutts and Mrs Justice Justine Thornton, said: "This was very serious offending by repeat protest offenders who were trespassers and on bail at the time. "Whilst the protest was non-violent as such, it had extreme consequences for many, many members of the public. "

Prime Minister Rishi Sunak defended the decision to grant 100 new North Sea oil and gas licences. The UK government has also said it will support a carbon capture project in the north east of Scotland. Campaigners said that extracting more fossil fuels from the North Sea would "send a wrecking ball through the UK's climate commitments". But Mr Sunak said granting the new licences was "entirely consistent" with net zero commitments. It comes as the party faces internal divisions over its green policies - such as the review over low-traffic neighbourhoods in England - with some MPs calling for a rethink.
At least two people have died in Beijing as China is battered by one of the strongest storms to hit the country in years. Storm Doksuri has been causing widespread flooding and has led to chaos across northern China. In the capital, at least 31,000 people have been forced to flee their homes, while subway stations have been closed. While the storm - a former super-typhoon - is weakening, officials have urged people to remain indoors. A red alert has been issued in the city and employers have been ordered to allow people to work from home, with the death toll from the severe flooding expected to rise in the coming days. Rainfall in Beijing and other cities in northern China has already reached dangerously high levels, while driving rains are expected to continue for at least another 24 hours.

An onshore wind farm on the Isle of Man could cost about £40m, Manx Utilities has confirmed. Earlier this month, Chairman Tim Crookall MHK said two sites in the north and south had been identified. Figures show the northern project at Sulby and Druidale would cost £40m, while the southern plans for Earystane and Scards sat between £30m and £40m. The varied costs for the south would depend on whether a landing stage at Castletown was required in the south. The government project is part of a drive to produce 75% of Manx electricity through solar and onshore wind by 2026. In February, Tynwald supported the island's publicly-owned monopoly electricity provider progressing the plans.

A third firefighter has died in Canada while battling the country's worst wildfire season on record. Authorities say the firefighter died tackling the Donnie Creek fire near Fort St John, in the western province of British Columbia. People are evacuating an area further south in the province, near the US border, as fires swirl out of control. A third of all fires currently raging in Canada are in British Columbia. So far this season, Canadian wildfires have burned about 30 million acres of land - more than the land area of South Korea or Cuba. Residents in the town of Osoyoos, in the south of the province, and its surrounding areas were told to evacuate late on Saturday after a fire originating from the northwestern US state of Washington crossed into Canada. People in the town shared photos of the approaching fire on social media, including the image above.
A project to increase tree cover and "help slow climate change" has achieved a milestone of planting more than 600,000 trees, its leaders say. The Forest for Cornwall, which was launched in 2019, said it was equivalent to one tree for every resident in the county. The project, supported by Cornwall Council, covers about 1,480 acres (600 hectares) of land. Forest for Cornwall wanted to reach one million trees by 2025, it said. The project has involved volunteers, businesses, farmers, community groups, schools, landowners, town and parish councils. Farmers can benefit from the Woodland Creation Partnership, funded by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs' Nature for Climate Fund, which provides finance and support for tree-planting on their land.

Dozens of environmental groups have warned the prime minister they will not "stand by" while politicians use the environment as a "political football". More than 50 organisations have written to Rishi Sunak expressing "deep alarm" at reports his government may water down its green commitments. They have requested an urgent meeting with the prime minister. Mr Sunak said he was committed to meeting the 2050 net zero target in a "pragmatic and proportionate way". Some Conservative MPs have been calling for a rethink of certain green policies, including banning the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles from 2030. But earlier this week, cabinet minister Michael Gove said the government remained committed to the ban, which was announced in 2020 by then-Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

Rishi Sunak has said "banning things" is "not the right approach" to reaching net zero, as political debate over the costs of climate action heats up. The prime minister said he was committed to achieving the 2050 target to curb carbon emissions, but in a "pragmatic and proportionate way". Some Conservative MPs have called for a rethink of green policies. Mr Sunak spoke to the BBC after a court rejected a legal challenge to the expansion of London's clean-air zone. Friday's ruling came in the wake of last week's parliamentary by-election in Uxbridge and South Ruislip, where Labour blamed its failure to take the seat from the Conservatives on concerns over the extension of the zone to outer London. Steve Tuckwell, the new Tory MP for the constituency, opposed Labour mayor Sadiq Khan's plan to enlarge the Ultra Low Emission Zone (Ulez), under which owners of the most polluting vehicles have to pay a daily charge.
When I meet Mounia Hamiss she is sitting outside on a mattress. Her home has been gutted by fire. The 65-year-old has lived near Tabarka all her life and less than a week ago had a farm with healthy olive, peach and apricot trees. Now their charred trunks are blackened and fragile. She is no stranger to wildfires, saying they are common in Tunisia in the summer months of June and July, so she didn't worry too much when new blazes broke out in the forests nearby. "This was not the first time we dealt with fires but they always stopped before reaching us," she says. This time, however, they didn't. She describes how she, her husband and son had a lucky escape as the flames engulfed their house and almost trapped them on Sunday. 'We had no water to douse the flames' she adds. "The heat was unbearable, and the fire got so close that we struggled to breathe. " She says she had no help from the authorities for days, relying instead on donations of water and food from neighbours.

Amid blistering heatwaves, July is "virtually certain" to be the world's warmest month on record, say scientists. So hot has the month been to date that researchers are confident the 2019 record will be broken, even with several days to go. UN chief Antonio Guterres said the planet is entering an "era of global boiling". Scientists agree the extra heat is mainly linked to fossil fuel use. US President Joe Biden described climate change as an "existential threat" and that no one "can deny the impact of climate change anymore". Some experts believe that July might well be the warmest month in the past 120,000 years.

Passenger trains are being fuelled by vegetable oil for the first time in the UK, a train operator has said. Chiltern Railways began using hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) to power some of its fleet on Thursday. HVO is made mostly of used cooking oils and can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 90%, compared to diesel. Richard Allan, managing director, said the operator was determined to operate a railway that was "easier, greener and better" for its customers. The train operator, which runs services between Birmingham and London, is using the biofuel, which is more expensive than diesel, to power its Class 68 locomotives as part of efforts to decarbonise its operations. Mr Allan said the conversion in fuel would make a "big difference" and would help to minimise the impact of trains on the environment.

Evacuation orders have been issued for areas close to two central Greek cities threatened by new outbreaks of wildfires. Citizens in areas around Volos and Lamia have been told to move to safety as the country remains in the grip of a severe heatwave. Meanwhile, fires continue to rage on the islands of Rhodes, Corfu and Evia. Greece is one of a number of countries currently grappling with wildfires, in which more than 40 people have died. Two people have died in the fires near Volos, the fire service has confirmed - a farmer who died after he went to release his sheep to protect them, and a woman who was in a mobile home in Chorostasi. Kostas Agorastos, mayor of Greece's Thessaly region, which includes Volos, has accused "brainless workers" of starting the fire, according to the Ellada 24 news channel. He added that it had broken out on four simultaneous fronts.

Young people with a passion for the environment are being urged to train as foresters and told they are pretty much "guaranteed a job". Students are even dropping out of their degrees after being offered full-time roles by firms "desperate" for staff. Industry leaders said a workforce crisis threatened the UK's ambitious tree-planting targets to fight climate change. The Welsh and UK governments said they were investing in skills and training. A new project at Bangor University in Gwynedd aims to tackle common misconceptions about the industry and attract a younger and more diverse workforce.

More than 40 people have died in Algeria, Italy and Greece and thousands have been evacuated as Mediterranean wildfires threaten villages and holiday resorts. The entire island of Rhodes has been put into a state of emergency, as fires also rage on Corfu and Evia. The current long heatwave shows no let-up - temperatures are expected to rise above 44C (111F) in parts of Greece. Fires in Sicily and Puglia have forced thousands of people to flee. High winds and tinder-dry vegetation mean firefighters are struggling in many areas to douse the flames and create firebreaks. The heaviest death toll so far is in Algeria, where the 34 victims included 10 soldiers surrounded by flames during an evacuation in the coastal province of Bejaia, east of Algiers. Bejaia is the worst-hit area, accounting for 23 of the deaths, local media report.

Seawater along the tip of Florida has exceeded hot tub temperatures of 37. 8C (100F) in recent days, making it potentially the hottest ever measured. A buoy in Manatee Bay registered triple-digit readings on Sunday and Monday, while buoys in two other places also nearly reached that mark. The highest ocean surface temperature ever recorded, albeit unofficially, was 37. 6C (99. 7F) in Kuwait Bay in 2020. The warming waters threaten marine life and ocean ecosystems like coral reefs. Scientists have observed bleaching and even death in some of the Florida Keys' most resilient reefs, home to millions of algae and other tiny organisms. Bleaching is when corals expel algae, lose their vibrant colour and weaken as water temperatures exceed roughly 35C. Such events can lead to death.

A campaign group has been set up to share concerns over proposals for an onshore wind farm in the south of the Isle of Man. Chairman of Manx Utilities Tim Crookall last week told Tynwald two sites were being considered to produce 20 megawatts of energy by the end of 2026. That included Earystane and Scards, which he conceded would cause concerns. Southern resident Kirrie Jenkins has set up the new group for people in the area to share their views on the plans. An alternative site at Sulby and Druidale in the north has also been identified. The two possible sites have been identified as part of a drive to produce 75% of Manx electricity through solar and onshore wind by 2026, which was approved by Tynwald in February.
A Scottish scientist has been chosen to lead one of the world's most influential climate change bodies. Prof Jim Skea, from Dundee, has been elected as chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Last year its work was described as a "code red for humanity" by the head of the UN. Prof Skea said he was "humbled and deeply honoured" to have been elected chair of the IPCC. The scientist, a former physics student at the University of Edinburgh, is professor of sustainable energy at Imperial College in London and the co-founder of the UK Committee on Climate Change. He was elected by 90 votes to 69 in a run-off and will lead the IPCC through its seventh assessment cycle. In his address to IPCC delegates, Prof Skea said: "Climate change is an existential threat to our planet.
Paris 2024 chief Tony Estanguet says he wants next year's event to be "a new model" for staging the Olympics. Organisers want the Games to be "spectacular and sustainable". Wednesday marks a year to go to the start of the Olympics and Estanguet says that Paris can show an example to the rest of the world. "We want to demonstrate that Paris and France can deliver a Games in a different way than in the past," he told BBC Sport. "We have to be engaged in a new model of delivering the Games. " The Olympics take place in the French capital from 26 July-11 August with the Paralympics to follow from 28 August-8 September. Organisers have put sustainability at the forefront of their plans with a goal to have emissions 50% lower than the 2012 and 2016 Games.

British tourists continue to cut short their holidays as fires burn on the Greek island of Rhodes. More flights left Greece on Tuesday to bring holidaymakers back to the UK. The Foreign Office updated its guidance, telling people travelling to areas that might be affected to make sure they had "appropriate insurance". The Liberal Democrats have urged ministers to advise against going to Rhodes unless essential, to help with travel insurance claims. Jet2 had nine flights scheduled to depart Rhodes on Tuesday, some of which had spare seats to accommodate extra passengers trying to leave the island. EasyJet said extra seats were available on Wednesday's flights. Earlier, one of the airline's pilots flying British tourists to Rhodes urged passengers at Gatwick to get off the plane before take-off.

Two Greek air force pilots have died after a plane crashed while fighting wildfires on the Greek island of Evia, officials say. The water-bombing plane crashed while battling a forest fire near Platanistos, the defence ministry said. The pilots were named as 34-year-old Cdr Christos Moulas and his co-pilot, 27-year-old Pericles Stefanidis. An intense European heatwave has also sparked wildfires across Sicily, Algeria and Tunisia. Greek TV showed the Canadair aircraft flying low to drop water on a fire before turning sharply into a hillside and bursting into flames. State broadcaster ERT said the plane crashed over the town of Karystos on the island, where a fire was burning. The plane was among at least three other aircraft and about 100 firefighters tackling fires on Evia.
A family of holidaymakers caught up in the Rhodes wildfires were packed on to dinghies to board a military ship as the flames closed in on their hotel. Paul and Corrine Watson and their two sons, from Cockermouth, Cumbria, were staying in Gennadi, near Lindos, when they were forced to flee on Saturday. Mr Watson said when rescue buses arrived at a nearby beach, fights broke out as people were desperate to board. The family then decided to take to the water in soldiers' dinghies. The Watsons, who are now safely back home, arrived on the island on Wednesday for a two-week holiday that cost £10,000. They became caught up in the unfolding drama just days later
The government remains committed to banning the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles by 2030, cabinet minister Michael Gove has said. Some senior Tories are calling on Rishi Sunak to scrap the deadline and row back on other green policies. Mr Gove said some plans to tackle the climate crisis create a "backlash" but the 2030 ban was immoveable. The policy was announced in 2020 by the then-Prime Minister Boris Johnson under his "green industrial revolution" plan. It comes after the Times reported that the government is considering an "Aston Martin exemption" to the 2030 car sales deadline, under which smaller carmakers would be given longer to switch to electric vehicles. Mr Gove told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I'm sure there are some people who would like to change that policy, I understand. But that policy remains. "

The heatwaves battering Europe and the US in July would have been "virtually impossible" without human-induced climate change, a scientific study says. Global warming from burning fossil fuels also made the heatwave affecting parts of China 50 times more likely. Climate change meant the heatwave in southern Europe was 2. 5C hotter, the study finds. Almost all societies remain unprepared for deadly extreme heat, experts warn. The study's authors say its findings highlight the importance of the world adapting to higher temperatures because they are no longer "rare". "Heat is among the deadliest types of disaster," says Julie Arrighi from the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre, and also one of the authors.

Taiwan has cancelled parts of its largest military drills as it braces for what could be the strongest typhoon to hit the island in four years. Doksuri has roared to super typhoon strength with winds of 240km/h (149mph) and is headed to waters that separate Taiwan and the Philippines. The annual Han Kuang drills that began on Monday test Taiwan's defence in case of an attack from China. It is unclear if the rest of the five-day-long exercise will be disrupted. Taiwan regards itself as a self-ruled island, distinct from mainland China, with its own laws and democratically elected leader. However, China sees island as a breakaway province that will eventually be brought under Beijing's control, by force if necessary. Typhoons are common in the western Pacific at this time of the year, but none have hit the island directly since 2019. Taiwan is projected to feel the impact of the super storm on Wednesday and Thursday.
Naturalists Chris Packham and Hamza Yassin have urged young people to engage with the climate crisis "before it is too late". The TV presenters said climate change was "the most important issue facing all of humanity". They encouraged young people watching them speak at The Latitude Festival in Suffolk to register to vote. "The parties' manifestos will have pledges to deal with climate breakdown," Packham said. "If you don't look at them you're neglecting your future," added the BBC Springwatch presenter, as he warned the situation was "becoming critical".
Climate activist Greta Thunberg has been removed from a protest blocking a road in Malmo, just hours after a Swedish court fined her over a similar action in June. Thunberg, 20, had denied the charge of disobeying a police order, but was found guilty and ordered to pay 2,500 Swedish krona ($240; £187). On both occasions, she was part of a group of protesters that blocked the road for oil trucks in Malmo harbour. Outside court she said there was "no option but to continue to take action".
Hundreds of holidaymakers have landed back in the UK following wildfires on Rhodes, with more repatriation flights set to take place. As many as 10,000 Britons are estimated to be on the Greek island - part of which has been ravaged by fierce fires. It has forced many holidaymakers to sleep in schools and sports centres. Rishi Sunak has urged people to remain in touch with tour operators, some of which have begun sending flights to bring people back to the UK. Throughout Monday, swathes of passengers arrived on flights from Rhodes into airports including Gatwick, Heathrow, Stansted, Birmingham and Bristol. But, thousands of Brits remain stuck waiting for flights home - including two newly-weds from Glasgow who described being on Rhodes as "being thrown into a disaster film".

Northern Ireland holidaymakers have praised the efforts of locals on the Greek island of Rhodes as they faced evacuation due to wildfires. The island has been battling flames fanned by strong winds for almost a week, with temperatures exceeding 40C (104F) due to the ongoing heatwave. Officials say about 19,000 people have been moved away from the path of the wildfires so far. Corfu and Evia are the latest islands to issue evacuation orders amid fires. Tourists evacuated from hotels in Rhodes have been sleeping at the airport, as well as in sports halls, conference centres and on streets.
A tourist visiting Rhodes has said she thought she and her partner were going to die in the wildfires. Libby Robb, from Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, and her partner Josh were celebrating their 21st birthdays on the Greek island when they were forced to evacuate their hotel in Kiotari. "We were just walking cluelessly. We didn't know where we were going," she told BBC Radio Sussex. Meanwhile, a father from Faversham, Kent, said he was left £10,000 out of pocket after his family holiday was cancelled.

Climate activist Greta Thunberg has been fined for disobeying a police order to leave a climate protest in the Swedish port of Malmö last month. Thunberg, 20, denied the charge, but was found guilty and ordered to pay 2,500 Swedish krona ($240; £187). Hours later, she took part in another protest and was carried away by police along with five others. On both occasions, she was part of a group of protesters that blocked the road for oil trucks in Malmö harbour. She was charged in June for failing to leave when ordered to do so by police. "I believe that we are in an emergency that threatens life, health and property," she told the court in Malmö on Monday, adding that "countless people" were at risk. "It's correct that I was at that place on that day, and it's correct that I received an order that I didn't listen to, but I want to deny the crime," she said.
Seventy years after a great flood hit the coast of eastern England, a new climate adaptation scheme is launching for protecting Britain's scheme. Fens 2100+ is designed to protect the low-lying area that is home to over 50% of England's top agricultural land. The Environment Agency says it will enable the Fens to "adapt to the challenges of climate change both now and into the future". Extreme weather and rising sea levels are threatening the region's residents and its capacity to produce food. The project will scope out what investment is needed to manage "flood and coastal risk" over the next 20 years. It will then develop adaptation plans "to balance the needs of people, the environment and agriculture for the next 100 years".
Thousands of people have been evacuated from homes and hotels on the Greek island of Rhodes after wildfires engulfed large parts of the island. Greece's fire service told the BBC it apologises for what it called "a mess" on the island, warning that the situation could worsen due to weather. More than 3,500 people have been evacuated by land and sea to safety. A further 1,200 will be evacuated from three villages - Pefki, Lindos and Kalathos. No injuries have been reported, according to the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection in Greece. It said visitors are being evacuated safely from the affected areas of Rhodes - which represent less than 10% of the island's tourist accommodation - and are being redirected to other hotels on the island.
Labour must learn the lessons of its by-election defeat in Uxbridge, Sir Keir Starmer has said. The Labour leader had blamed the loss on London Mayor Sadiq Khan's plans to expand the Ultra Low Emission Zone (Ulez) - a tax on polluting vehicles. Conservative Steve Tuckwell won the seat after campaigning against the tax. Addressing Labour's national forum, Sir Keir said there was "something very wrong" when a Labour policy was on "each and every Tory leaflet". In a bruising week for Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, Labour and the Lib Dems took two safe Tory seats. Labour's Keir Mather, 25, won in Selby and Ainsty, North Yorkshire, overturning a 20,137 majority to become the youngest sitting MP. The Conservatives clung on narrowly in the third by-election, in Uxbridge, Boris Johnson's former seat, despite a big swing to Labour.

Four climate activists were arrested after chaining themselves to an old washing machine in a protest at the Ineos oil refinery  in Grangemouth. They were among a group of protesters who blocked the entrance to the plant from 19:00 on Friday. Several activists remained at the scene into the early hours of Saturday morning. Twenty people from the This Is Rigged organisation were arrested at the same refinery on Wednesday. On that occasion, police officers used a crane and specialist climbing equipment to bring down protesters who had scaled oil tankers and pipes.
One of the UK's rarest birds is raising a family in Kent after escaping record temperatures further south, nature experts say. Four black-winged stilt chicks have recently fledged in Worth Marshes, near Sandwich, after a pair of the birds arrived from Africa in the spring. It is believed the species is flying further north as climate change causes its natural habitat in countries like Spain to become too hot. "The wetland habitat is so incredibly important for them to breed," said Izzy Donovan, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) senior site manager at Dungeness and Worth Nature Reserves.
Heavy rainfall in July has seen water scarcity levels across Scotland return to normal in most parts of the country. The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (Sepa) said it was in "stark contrast" to just three weeks ago. At that time five parts of the country had reached significant scarcity - the highest level available - after a prolonged spell of dry weather. Sepa said the turnaround in conditions was "very much welcome" bringing a "much needed revival of river levels. " By the end of that month, five different areas were under the highest level warning for water shortages.
Climate activists who held protests at two major Scottish oil sites have stepped down, Police Scotland has said. Twenty people were arrested after targeting Grangemouth's Ineos oil refinery on Wednesday morning. Police officers used a crane and specialist climbing equipment after several This Is Rigged activists scaled oil tankers and climbed on pipework. Protesters also gathered at the Nustar Clydebank oil terminal. Police said they had all left by Thursday evening. Those arrested at Grangemouth over alleged public order offences and breach of the peace will appear at Falkirk Sheriff Court at a later date. The protesters had said their aim was to "shut down the Scottish oil industry".
A leading British climate scientist has told the BBC he believes the target to limit global warming to 1. 5C will be missed. Professor Sir Bob Watson, former head of the UN climate body, told the BBC's Today programme he was "pessimistic". His warning comes amidst a summer of extreme heat for Europe, China and the US. The UN says passing the limit will expose millions more people to potentially devastating climate events. The world agreed to try to limit the temperature increase due to climate change to 1. 5C above pre-industrial levels at a UN conference in Paris in 2015. That target has become the centrepiece of global efforts to tackle climate change.
Twenty people have been arrested and charged after police launched an operation to remove climate protesters at Grangemouth petrochemical plant. Officers used a crane and specialist climbing equipment after several This Is Rigged activists scaled oil tankers and climbed on pipework on Wednesday. Other protesters blocking gates at the site were taken away in police vans. This Is Rigged also staged a smaller protest at the Rothesay Dock oil terminal in Clydebank. Ineos said production at the Grangemouth refinery, near Falkirk, was unaffected but a tanker terminal had been shut as a precaution. Police Scotland confirmed the 20 arrests and said they had been charged for offences under section 68 of the Public Order Act and breach of the peace at the Ineos site.

Climate protesters have drawn a giant postcard to Rishi Sunak on Skegness beach. Messages including "down let us drown" and "ban single use plastic" were written into a 150-metre stretch of sand on Tuesday. Rights Community Action (RCA) claimed the Lincolnshire town was at "risk of devastation" from the climate crisis. The government released its latest proposals for boosting the country's resilience on Monday. The five-year national adaptation plan outlined measures to tackle overheating and flooding. But the 140-page document was criticised by experts for not containing substantial new money or legislation. RCA, which worked on the Skegness protest with arts organisation Sand In Your Eye, called for the prime minister to give local councils more power to take action.

Teams at Euro 2024 will be expected to travel to group-stage matches by coach or train and not to fly to reduce their carbon impact. European football governing body Uefa says it wants next summer's tournament in Germany to be "the most sustainable European Championship of all time". Group games have been regionalised to favour travel by land.Flights produce greenhouse gases - mainly carbon dioxide (CO2) - from burning fuel. These gases contribute to climate change. Uefa hopes to discourage short-haul flights during the group stage by dividing fixtures into three clusters in the north, west and south of the country, meaning travel by rail or road is more practical. That may change should teams progress through to a knockout game at the other end of the country.
The UK is still not treating climate change as a national priority and is not prepared, warn the experts who advise the government . They criticised the latest government climate change adaptation plan for not containing any substantial new money or new legislation. The five-year programme, released on Monday, includes measures to tackle overheating and flooding. Secretary of State for Environment Therese Coffey defended the plan as a "step change". The Third National Adaptation Plan (NAP) outlines how the government intends to prepare the UK for climate change from health to housing. Before publication the UK Committee on Climate Change (UKCCC) called on the government to make sure the third plan matched the scale of the challenge the country is facing.
A heat dome over the US south-west has translated into extreme heat warnings from coast to coast, which continue to affect more than 110 million people. Temperature records could be broken in as many as 38 cities. In Las Vegas, the intense heatwave was threatening to break or tie the city's record high of 117F (47. 2C). It comes as soaring temperatures are also hitting southern Europe and Canada is battling the worst season of wildfires in its history. Scientists have long warned that climate change linked to human activities will lead to an increase in the severity and frequency of extreme weather events. Elsewhere in the south-western US, hundreds of firefighters have been battling brush fires in blistering heat and low humidity on the outskirts of Los Angeles.
A total of five people have been arrested during an environmental protest at a Scottish oil refinery. Climate Camp Scotland said they "occupied" the Ineos gas power station, which powers the Grangemouth refinery, on Saturday afternoon. It followed a "day of resistance" from the group, which has set up a protest camp at Kinneil Estate in Bo'ness. Police Scotland confirmed that five people had been arrested following the protest in Grangemouth near Falkirk. Images emerged of four people holding a banner from the roof of the Ineos plant reading "Climate Justice for Grangemouth". It followed an earlier demonstration when 200 activists marched from the temporary protest camp to the oil terminal a mile away.
Southern Europe will continue to swelter next week as an intense heatwave shows no sight  of abating. Italy, Spain and Greece have been experiencing high temperatures for several days already. The Italian health ministry issued a red alert for 16 cities including Rome, Bologna and Florence for the weekend. The heatwave is expected to continue well into next week, with 48C (118. 4F) possible in Sardinia, according to Italian media. Such a temperature would, however, fall short of the European record high of 48. 8C (119. 8F) - which was recorded in Sicily in August 2021. The Italian weather service said Sardinia would be at the "epicentre" of next week's heatwave - which weather forecasters have dubbed Charon, after the ferryman who delivered souls into the underworld in Greek mythology.
An 81-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of a number of sexual offences against children in Northern Ireland dating back to the 1970s. The Police Service of Northern Ireland said the man was extradited to Belfast from Canada on Friday morning. He was arrested by virtue of an international warrant, police said. The man is expected to appear before Belfast Magistrates' Court on Saturday 16 September. "The arrest is another example of partnership working between Canadian authorities and the Police Service of Northern Ireland's International Policing Unit," Det Ch Insp Jill Duffie said in a statement.
A jury in the US state of Michigan has acquitted three men of involvement in a plot to kidnap the state's governor. William Null, Michael Null and Eric Molitor were found not guilty of providing support for a terrorist act and a weapons charge. They were among 14 accused of plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer from her holiday home in 2020. Nine men have been convicted, and two others were previously acquitted. Prosecutors say the plot was motivated by rumours that the 2020 presidential election would be stolen and opposition to Covid-19 restrictions imposed by Ms Whitmer's administration. The group, which included members of the Wolverine Watchmen militia, planned to put the governor on trial for treason. Ringleaders Adam Fox and Barry Croft Jr were convicted of kidnapping conspiracy last year. Fox was sentenced to 16 years in prison while Croft was handed a sentence of 19 years and 7 months. Joseph Morrison, the leader of the Wolverine Watchmen, was sentenced to 10 to 20 years in prison.

The thoughts of one Moroccan schoolteacher immediately turned to her pupils when she felt the 6. 8-magnitude earthquake strike a week ago. Nesreen Abu ElFadel was in Marrakesh - but Adaseel, the mountain village that was home to her school and pupils, was closer to the epicentre. The Arabic- and French-language teacher returned to Adaseel where she went searching for the children. She discovered that entire class of  32 - ranging from six to 12 years old - had killed . "I went to the village and started asking about my kids: 'Where is Somaya? Where is Youssef? Where is this girl? Where is that boy? ' The answer came hours later: 'They are all dead. ' "I imagined holding my class's attendance sheet and putting a line through one student's name after another, until I had scratched off 32 names; they are all now dead," she told the BBC.
A charity worker has spoken of the "inspiring" resilience of the Moroccan population. It has been one week since a 6. 8 magnitude quake struck Morocco at 23:00 BST. Two more response teams from Wiltshire-based disaster response charity Re:act will arrive in the country later to provide support. "It's really great to see communities supporting each other," said CEO Toby Wicks. More than 2,800 people have died in the disaster, with many more critically injured. The total number of people who have been affected is in the hundreds of thousands, and Re:act have been on the ground for most of the week. Their response team is currently stationed in the village of Amizmiz, in the foothills of the Atlas mountains, about 60km (37 miles) south-west of Marrakech.
Hurricane Lee is heading north up the Atlantic and is expected to make landfall around Maine and Nova Scotia  canada by this weekend. Lee was a category one storm as of Friday morning, but the colder water temperatures of the Atlantic might weaken the storm. Millions in coastal New England and parts of Canada are under storm warnings. US authorities said it will be "large and dangerous". The storm has sustained wind speeds of 80mph (128km/h) and is currently 395 miles (635km) south of Nantucket, Massachusetts, according to the National Hurricane Center (NHC). Lee, which is a couple of hundred miles north of Bermuda, has already whipped up strong winds and caused power outages throughout those islands. Tropical storm conditions will begin in southern New England area later on Friday. The NHC said Lee will still be "a large and dangerous cyclone" that will bring strong winds, heavy rain and coastal flooding.
Staff at three of America's biggest carmakers have gone on strike in an unprecedented co-ordinated action. More than 10,000 workers are participating in the historic strike, which targets three plants owned by General Motors (GM), Ford and Stellantis. The firms and the United Auto Workers union (UAW) are fighting over terms of new labour agreements. The work stoppage threatens to trigger higher car prices and major disruption for the motor industry giants. As the current contract expired on Thursday, the UAW's president Shawn Fain told the BBC it was now up to the companies to resolve the dispute. "When they start taking care of their workers it will end," he said. The strike started at midnight eastern time (04:00 GMT) at GM's Wentzville, Missouri, mid-size truck plant, Ford's Bronco plant in Michigan and the Jeep plant in Toledo, Ohio, owned by Stellantis.

Two men are facing a court in south-west France accused of beating a bus driver to death after they allegedly refused to wear face-masks. The defendants, now aged 24 and 25, are accused of "dealing mortal blows" during the incident in the city of Bayonne in July 2020. Philippe Monguillot, aged 59, died in hospital five days after the assault. The two accused, Wyssem Manai and Maxime Guyennon, could face a 20-year prison sentence if convicted. Prosecutors say Mr Monguillot was set upon after asking three men on his bus to show their tickets and adjust face-masks they were wearing over their chin. The incident occurred after the end of France's first Covid lockdown, when masks were mandatory on all public transport. In an ensuing confrontation, Mr Monguillot was kicked and punched and his head hit the pavement as he fell.
Surveillance footage shows the moment cars were swept away by flooding in the Maghar neighbourhood of the Libyan city of Derna. Large parts of the city were devastated when two dams burst in the wake of Storm Daniel. Figures for the number of dead vary from around 6,000 to 11,000 - with thousands still missing. The city's mayor says the total could reach 20,000. The footage, verified by the BBC and dated to the early hours of 11 September, shows how rapidly the disaster unfolded.
A man whose relative escaped the catastrophic floods in Libya has said warnings ahead of the disaster were "a failure". About 11,000 people are known to have died and 20,000 more are missing after severe flooding in the eastern city of Derna on Sunday. Former aid worker Ahmed Hassadi from Brighton, East Sussex, said: "Humanity must learn lessons from this". He said members of his extended family had died in the floods. The UN's World Meteorological Organization said most of the thousands of deaths could have been avoided if authorities had issued appropriate warnings and undertaken evacuations. Mr Hassadi, who previously worked in logistics for the International Medical Corps UK, said: "The warning was a failure and understanding the storm was a failure. The emergency response was a failure, unfortunately.
A court in Mexico has convicted 11 ex-police officers of killing a group of migrants near the US border in 2021. The bodies of 17 migrants were found in a burnt-out vehicle in the town of Camargo in Tamaulipas state. Investigators say they were killed as part of a turf war between criminal gangs over control of migrant smuggling routes in the area. Every year, thousands of people from Central America attempt to make the long journey to the US through Mexico. A total of 19 bodies were found in the charred vehicle in Camargo in January 2021. Sixteen were found to be from Guatemala and one from Honduras. The other two bodies were those of Mexican traffickers taking them to the border, investigators said.
The UK, France and Germany are to retain sanctions on Iran in an attempt to deter Tehran from selling drones and missiles to Russia. In 2015 Iran agreed to a nuclear deal and, under the terms, some sanctions were due be lifted next month. However, the European nations believe Iran breached the deal by enriching and storing uranium. Iran says their move is "illegal and provocative" and "clearly violated" the terms of the nuclear deal. European diplomatic sources said the decision was driven not just by a desire to prevent Iran gaining economically, but also to try to reduce the possibility of Tehran transferring ballistic missiles to Russia. Tehran has already sold many drones to Moscow which have been used against Ukraine. The UK, France and Germany said the sanctions were designed "to maintain nuclear proliferation-related measures on Iran, as well as arms and missile embargoes".

Patrick Kielty has said RTÉ's The Late Late Show will have an all-Ireland flavour as a by-product of his Northern Ireland upbringing as he prepares to make his debut as its host tonight. The comedian and entertainer becomes the fourth permanent presenter of the world's longest-running live chat show. He told BBC News NI he would not try to fill the shoes of his predecessors Gay Byrne, Pat Kenny and Ryan Tubridy. Instead he will find comfort in his own and "walk out there and try to dance". The show is an Irish institution, having started only months after the 1962 launch of Irish TV. Kielty started out at a Belfast comedy club and has presented Love Island, This Morning and BBC Radio 4's The News Quiz as well as other comedy and theatre shows. He is married to presenter Cat Deeley.
Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg has been charged with disobeying a police order to leave a protest at a busy port in Sweden, months after she was convicted of a similar offence. She was fined in July for refusing to leave a protest on a road for oil transport from Malmo harbour. After the verdict, Ms Thunberg and other activists returned to the port and were again removed by police. Her second trial is scheduled for 27 September. In a statement, Swedish prosecutor Isabel Ekberg said the demonstration on 24 July had not been authorised and had disrupted traffic. Ms Thunberg was demonstrating at the port in southern Sweden alongside the group Reclaim the Future. They attempted to prevent traffic from getting in and out, in order to protest the use of fossil fuels.
Apple will update its iPhone 12 in France after fears about radiation, the country's digital minister says. Jean-Noel Barrot said Apple would deliver a software update for users in the country in the coming days. Sales of iPhone 12 were halted in France after a regulator detected too much electromagnetic radiation. Apple was told to fix the issue. The firm said the new update would only apply to users in France, where it said a specific testing protocol existed. The American tech giant suggested the radiation findings were a result of that testing regime, and that it was "not a safety concern". The planned update raises questions over Apple's plans for iPhone 12, which was released just three years ago, in other countries. Mr Barrot said that the radio frequency regulator (ANFR) would test the new update to check its compliance before iPhone 12 is allowed back on sale in the country.
This is the moment police in Rio de Janeiro swooped in and rescued a puma cub being held illegally. Brazilian Federal Police believe it was to be sold on for more than $4,000. Officers are investigating who is responsible, with no arrests made yet. The cub was sent to an animal centre in Seropédica for checks, with the aim to return it to the wild. Those responsible could face several years in prison.
The Indian government has accused X Corp (formerly known as Twitter) of being a "habitual non-complaint platform" in a recent court filing. "X-Corp does not follow the law of the land," the government said, adding that this lowered "the authority of the law, judiciary and executive". The document, accessed by the BBC, was filed by the government in response to an appeal by X in a court in the south Indian state of Karnataka. X has not commented on the filing.X is appealing against a recent order of the high court which dismissed its challenge to several government orders to block certain accounts and posts. The court had also imposed a fine of 5m rupees ($60,208; £48,450) on X for not complying with several such orders for over a year.
A top US diplomat has questioned the absence of China's defence minister Li Shangfu, renewing speculation of a possible corruption purge. General Li has been not seen in public for about two weeks and has reportedly missed several meetings. Rahm Emanuel, the US envoy to Japan, speculated on Mr Li's absence, tweeting that the "unemployment rate" in the Chinese government was very high. Mr Li's absence follows recent axings of several top military officials. Citing sources in the US and China, The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Mr Li is being removed from his post. It also comes months after foreign minister Qin Gang disappeared from public view. Mr Qin's sudden absence and replacement in July has still not been fully explained. In Gen Li's case too, the Chinese government has not said much. When asked about it earlier this week, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman had reportedly said she was "not aware of the situation".

Former Australian star cricketer Stuart MacGill has been charged over his alleged role in a large cocaine supply plot. Police arrested the 52-year-old, who played 44 Test matches for Australia, in Sydney on Tuesday. Their investigation was sparked when MacGill was allegedly abducted and beaten in 2021. The former spinner is yet to enter a plea but has previously denied being involved in supplying drugs. MacGill made global headlines in April 2021 after telling police he was confronted and forced into a car in the Sydney suburb of Cremorne. He was allegedly driven to a remote site on the city's outskirts, where he says he was assaulted and threatened at gunpoint, before being driven to a third location and released. MacGill sustained minor injuries in the alleged incident but did not require medical care. In an interview following the alleged abduction, MacGill said "I've done nothing wrong" and police at the time said he was "purely" a victim. Six people - including his then-partner's brother - have been charged over the incident.

The Moroccan authorities have announced plans to fund the rebuilding of about 50,000 homes damaged by last week's earthquake. They will provide more than $13,000 (£10,460) for the reconstruction of homes which have been completely destroyed, and $8,000 for those with partial damage. Residents will meanwhile be given temporary shelters equipped to withstand cold weather, and each household will receive a grant of $3,000. The exact number of people left homeless is still not known. Nearly 3,000 people have been confirmed dead, and more than 5,000 injured in the 6. 8 magnitude quake.

A blue plaque has been unveiled at the home of a Barnsley Egyptologist who uncovered some of the first clues to the location of Tutankhamun's tomb. Ernest Harold Jones, who died in 1911, "made significant archaeological discoveries that have largely been forgotten", Barnsley Council said. The town's civic trust said he sparked interest in finding the pharaoh's tomb after finding objects bearing his name. The plaque was unveiled on Sackville Street, where he lived, on Thursday. Tutankhamun's tomb was famously discovered by Howard Carter, a friend of Jones', in a 1922 dig inside the Valley of the Kings. Prof Joann Fletcher, an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of York, believed it is highly likely that he would have found the tomb before Carter had Jones not died young from tuberculosis.
A Bangladesh court has sentenced two prominent human rights activists to two years in jail, in what critics say is part of a crackdown ahead of elections. Adilur Rahman Khan and Nasiruddin Elan from rights group Odhikar always denied decade-old charges that they published a report with false information. But prosecutors said their report on security force killings in 2013 "undermined" the country's image. The two were convicted on Thursday in Dhaka after a 10-year judicial process. Dozens of international human rights groups have called for the two men's immediate release, saying the pair were denied a fair trial. Both activists have spent decades documenting thousands of alleged extrajudicial killings, disappearances of opposition activists and police brutalities in Bangladesh.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is expected to meet US President Joe Biden at the White House when he visits the US next week, US media report. Both leaders are also due to attend the meeting of the United Nations General Assembly in New York that week, reports CBS News, the BBC's US partner. Other US outlets report that he will also visit Capitol Hill to lobby for more US aid to fight Russia's invasion. The US provides billions in weapons and aid to fund Ukraine's military. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Ukraine last week to announce the newest aid package amounting to more than $1bn (£800bn). The aid includes depleted uranium tank shells, which the US had previously said would not be sent to Ukraine. Last month, Mr Biden called on Congress to send another $24bn to Ukraine. While at the UN headquarters in New York, where he is slated to deliver a speech to the assembly, Mr Zelensky is also reportedly planning to hold meetings with other visiting world leaders.

US authorities have seized artworks by the Austrian artist Egon Schiele from American museums following a claim they were looted during the Holocaust. Investigators in New York have seized three pieces from galleries in Chicago, Pittsburgh and Ohio. The pictures are being sought by the heirs of Fritz Grünbaum, an Austrian-Jewish art collector, cabaret performer and outspoken critic of Nazism. The museums say they are confident in their legal ownership of the art works. Mr Grünbaum, who died in a concentration camp at Dachau in 1941, owned 81 pieces by Schiele. They were part of a wider collection of more than 400 works of art, according to legal documents from a previous case. They state that Mr Grünbaum was forced by the Nazis to sign over power of attorney to his wife while he was in a concentration camp in around 1938. The artworks he owned were subsequently, according to documents, looted and dispersed.

Investors snapped up shares of UK chip designer Arm Holdings as it returned to the stock market, sending its market value to more than $60bn (£48. 3bn). The shares ended trade on Thursday worth more than $63 each, after rising by almost 25% from the $51 apiece that Arm received from the sale. The sale was the biggest initial public offering of the year, raising $4. 87bn for owner Softbank Group. The share price jump has been seen as a vote of confidence in the firm. "Despite some concerns about the company's exposure to numerous risks in China, it's not stopped a juggernaut of enthusiasm," said Susannah Streeter head of money and markets at Hargreaves Lansdown. A star of the British technology industry, Arm designs chips for devices including smartphones and game consoles. It estimates that 70% of the world's population uses products that rely on its chips, including nearly all of the world's smartphones.

President Joe Biden's son, Hunter, has been criminally charged with three counts of lying  about three federal gun charges when buying a firearm, after a proposed plea deal collapsed. The indictment marks the first time the child of a sitting president has been criminally prosecuted. A planned plea bargain to resolve gun and tax-related charges he faced abruptly fell apart in July. All three counts relate to Mr Biden, 53, allegedly lying on forms while buying a gun when he was a drug user. Prosecutors allege he falsely claimed that he was "not an unlawful user of and addicted to any stimulant narcotic drug" when he purchased a Colt Cobra Special revolver at a Delaware gun store in October 2018. At the time, Mr Biden was a heavy user of crack cocaine. Under US federal laws, it is a crime to lie on such documentation, or possess a firearm while a drug user.
A man has been sentenced to 17 years in prison for his involvement in riots that shook Brazil's capital in January after the presidential election. He was one of thousands who refused to accept the far-right president Jair Bolsonaro's loss, ransacking government buildings in protest. Aecio Pereira, convicted of attempting a coup, is the first to be tried in connection with the attacks. He denied wrongdoing and said he believed he was at a peaceful protest. Pereira, 51, was arrested inside the Senate building, He had filmed himself at the Senate president's table during the riots, wearing a T-shirt marked with the words "Military Intervention" while he urged fellow supporters of Mr Bolsonaro to "take to the streets. " The mob he was part of claimed the election result was rigged and invaded the presidential palace and the high court in Brasilia, smashing windows, throwing furniture into fountains and vandalizing artwork. Some had also been camping outside army buildings around the country calling for a military intervention.
An Irish man whose wife died after contracting Bordeaux fish at a restaurant in France is continuing to receive treatment in hospital. They were among a number of people who fell ill with the rare food-borne illness in Bordeaux after eating sardines. Irish broadcaster RTÉ reported the 32-year-old woman, a Greek national, was discharged from hospital but subsequently died as a result of complications thought to be linked to the neurological illness. Her husband, from the Castlebar area of County Mayo, is still being treated by doctors in France. RTÉ said it is understood he is in a serious condition. It added the couple is believed to have travelled to Bordeaux last weekend for Ireland's opening Rugby World Cup match. Santé publique France, the country's public health agency, said the homemade sardines had been stored by the owner of Tchin Tchin Wine Bar in the French city.
Police in the United Arab Emirates have seized 13 tonnes of amphetamine pills smuggled in furniture. More than $1bn (£810m) worth of the drug known as Captagon were found after officers were alerted to a suspicious looking shipping container. A video showed Dubai police tearing open wooden panels and doors where 86 million pills were hidden. Dubbed "the poor man's cocaine", Captagon is reportedly one of the most popular drugs among youths in the Gulf. The police did not mention the suspected origin of the illegal shipment, but Captagon is believed to be produced in huge quantities in Syria. At the height of the country's civil war armed groups supplied the drug to fighters - which is highly addictive and often laced with caffeine - to boost their courage. Deepening poverty is said to have forced many ordinary Syrians to become involved in the illegal Captagon trade, which is worth billions of dollars.
French supermarket Carrefour has put stickers on its shelves this week warning shoppers of "shrinkflation" , where packet contents are getting smaller while prices are not. Lipton Ice Tea, Lindt chocolate and Viennetta ice cream are among the products being named and shamed. Shoppers are being told if bottles are smaller or pack contents lighter. Carrefour said it wanted to put pressure on the firms making the products to keep prices down. "Obviously, the aim in stigmatising these products is to be able to tell manufacturers to rethink their pricing policy," said Stefen Bompais, director of client communications at Carrefour. Carrefour has identified 26 products that have shrunk, without a price reduction to match, made by food giants including Nestle, PepsiCo and Unilever. Carrefour said Guigoz infant milk formula produced by Nestle had gone from a pack size of 900g to 830g, for example.
Rishi Sunak has said he is "acutely aware of the particular threat to our open and democratic way of life" posed by China's Communist regime. The prime minister was responding to a damning report on the UK's China strategy by Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee. Ministers would take "all necessary steps" to protect the country from foreign state activity, the PM said. He is facing calls from some Tories to officially classify China a "threat". He has resisted taking this step, instead describing China as an "epoch-defining and systemic challenge" while acknowledging the need to engage with the super power.
US senator and former presidential hopeful Mitt Romney has called for Donald Trump and Joe Biden to retire and make room for a new generation of politicians. He made the remarks while speaking to media about his own plans to retire. He said he was choosing not run again because it was time "for a new generation of leaders". Mr Romney, 76, has had a 20-year career in US politics, including a stint as governor of Massachusetts. In recent years, the prominent Republican has become a vocal critic of both Mr Biden and Mr Trump. He will remain in office until the end of his senate term in January 2025. In a video announcing his choice to not run again, posted to social media on Wednesday afternoon, Mr Romney suggested that age played a role in his decision.
A "total system collapse" caused widespread power cuts across Nigeria on Thursday. Early in the morning, levels of power generated in Africa's most populous country fell to zero megawatts. Connections were gradually restored throughout the day. Grid power supplies are often erratic in Nigeria, located in the west of Africa, despite its role as a major oil and gas producer. Thursday's was the most serious outage for a year - the West African country's grid collapsed at least four times in 2022, which the authorities blamed on technical problems. A number of electricity distribution companies told customers on X, the social media platform formally known as Twitter, that the most recent blackouts were a result of a "total system collapse".

Escaped Pennsylvania killer Danelo Cavalcante was planning to flee to Canada before he was captured on Wednesday, authorities say. The 34-year-old, who was convicted of killing his ex-girlfriend, reportedly told law enforcement he was going to carjack someone and head north. He also reportedly said some of the 500 officers hunting for him came so close at times they almost stepped on him. A law enforcement dog caught Cavalcante crawling through thick underbrush. Authorities initially thought he might try to return to his home country of Brazil, where he is wanted for another murder.
A luxury cruise ship that has been stuck in the mud in Greenland since Monday has finally been pulled free. The Ocean Explorer and its 206 passengers and crew were rescued on Thursday by a Greenland research trawler after it was grounded within the Northeast Greenland National Park. The boat's owner, SunStone, said there were no injuries to anyone onboard. However, tour operator Aurora Expeditions said a small number of people had come down with Covid-19. The Ocean Explorer became stuck in mud and silt above the Arctic Circle in Alpefjord, 1,400 km (870 miles) northeast of Greenland's capital Nuuk. A number of attempts were made to free the ship during high tide but they failed. The Danish military's Joint Arctic Command said an inspection vessel had been due to arrive at the scene on Friday.

China has become the first country to name a new ambassador to Afghanistan since the Taliban retook power in 2021. The Taliban said Zhao Xing's appointment is a sign for other nations to establish ties with its government. No country has formally recognised the Taliban government, which has been criticised over human rights violations and crushing women's rights. Analysts say Mr Zhao's appointment is part of China's moves to cement its influence in the region. Afghanistan is at the centre of a region that is key to Beijing's Belt and Road infrastructure initiative. Beijing has previously said that it wants to invest in Afghanistan's natural resources, estimated to be worth $1 trillion. These include extensive copper, lithium and gold deposits.
North Korea's leader Kim Jung Un has unexpectedly extended his visit to Russia, where he was meeting President Vladimir Putin for a suspected arms deal. The pair had discussed possibilities for military cooperation on Wednesday. Mr Putin also "gratefully" accepted an invitation from Mr Kim to visit North Korea, a Kremlin spokesperson said. Moscow is buying weapons for its war on Ukraine and any help would violate UN resolutions, the US has warned. Mr Kim was warmly received by Mr Putin at the Vostochny space centre on Wednesday in Russia's far east - the North Korean leader spent two days travelling there in his private luxury bulletproof train. Russian state media footage showed the two leaders grinning as they shook hands, before Mr Putin personally escorted Mr Kim around the space centre.

Several European countries say they will examine concerns the iPhone 12 is emitting too much electromagnetic radiation, after France ordered Apple to stop sales. Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany are now also looking into the issue. France's regulator has given the tech giant two weeks to respond to its probe, which German authorities say could lead to Europe-wide measures. Apple said it had provided proof it was complying with radiation regulations. France's National Frequencies Agency (ANFR) said on Tuesday that radiation tests on the iPhone 12 had come back higher than allowed. The halt on French sales "could have a snowball effect", French digital economy minister Jean-Noël Barrot told the Le Parisien newspaper. The ANFR will now share its findings with regulators in other EU member states. The Belgian government has instructed its regulator to review whether the iPhone 12, first released in 2020, poses health risks.
The funerals have taken place of five Palestinians killed in an explosion in Gaza by the boundary wall with Israel. Hundreds had joined two rallies at the time of the blast on Wednesday evening. The Israeli military said there had been "an attempt by rioters to launch an explosive device" at its soldiers. A Palestinian security source told the BBC that a home-made device "typically used to cause a disturbance by making a very loud, annoying sound" had exploded as young men were trying to throw it. More than 20 people were injured, Palestinian medics say. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said protesters had previously thrown explosives and grenades at soldiers. A grainy black and white video released by the IDF shows the explosion close to a concrete wall, which Israel has built around Gaza, as a small crowd of people runs away.
Satellite images show the scale of destruction in the Libyan port of Derna after floodwaters swept away bridges, streets and communities - leaving thousands of people missing or dead. Heavy rains brought by Storm Daniel at the weekend caused two dams to burst on the usually dry Wadi Derna riverbed running through the city. The torrents of water and debris left a trail of devastation. A series of bridges had crossed the Wadi, connecting the port area with the western side of the city. The waters - which one official described as "like a tsunami" - swept away the bridges and whole blocks of buildings along the river including multi-storey residential blocks, government buildings and a large mosque.

The body of an Ecuadorean gang leader has disappeared from its resting place in a cemetery in Colombia, police say. Junior Roldán's remains were placed in a wall vault in the town of Envigado after no one had claimed his body. The number two in Los Choneros, a prison gang which has been terrorising Ecuador, had been found shot dead in Colombia's Antioquia province in May. He had fled to Colombia after surviving two previous attempts on his life in his native Ecuador. His body was found with bullet wounds to the head in a wooded area on 6 May. Police suspect that he was killed by his bodyguard who wanted to steal the large sum of cash the gang leader had taken with him when he went into hiding, but no arrests have been made in connection with his murder. They identified him by his tattoos and he was laid to rest in a wall vault at the central cemetery just south of Medellín on 18 May.
Ukraine says it has destroyed a sophisticated Russian air defence system in occupied Crimea. Kyiv's security service (SBU) and navy carried out the attack on a Russian facility near Yevpatoriya using cruise missiles and drones, a Ukrainian intelligence source told the BBC. Video footage on social media showed a fire and smoke near the city, in the west of the Russian-occupied peninsula. Moscow has yet to directly comment on the claim. Instead, the Russian defence ministry said it had shot down several Ukrainian aerial drones and thwarted a separate attack on a naval patrol vessel.

A boxing coach who has trained British and world champions is now helping a talented young Ukrainian pursue his dreams of a career in the sport. Vladimir came to Bristol with his family following the outbreak of war in Ukraine. He was encouraged to attend Bristol Boxing Club after attending a church in the city and coach Chris Sanigar is now offering his services for free. "It means a lot because I come from a big boxing family," said Vladimir. Mr Sanigar was a regional champion boxer in his youth and opened Bristol Boxing Club in 1989. The club is also the home of Empire Fighting Chance, a charity which uses non-contact boxing and support to help young people in need aged between eight and 25.
A murderer who escaped from a US jail two weeks ago was captured by a law enforcement dog after a heat-sensing aircraft located him, authorities say. Danelo Cavalcante, 34, was arrested in a wooded area in Pennsylvania on Wednesday as he tried to crawl away from officers who had surrounded him. More than 500 officers hunted him down after he escaped on 31 August. He was sentenced to life in prison last month for killing his ex-girlfriend in front of her two children in 2021. But just a week after he was sentenced, Cavalcante "crab-walked" between two walls and scaled a razor-wire fence to escape Chester County Prison, about 30 miles (50km) west of Philadelphia, where he had been awaiting transfer to a different facility. The two-week manhunt spanned a large area of the state and put residents of Chester County on edge, with earlier sightings prompting police to advise residents to lock their doors and stay inside.
A murderer who escaped from a US jail two weeks ago was captured by a law enforcement dog after a heat-sensing aircraft located him, authorities say. Danelo Cavalcante, 34, was arrested in a wooded area in Pennsylvania on Wednesday as he tried to crawl away from officers who had surrounded him. More than 500 officers hunted him down after he escaped on 31 August. He was sentenced to life in prison last month for killing his ex-girlfriend in front of her two children in 2021. But just a week after he was sentenced, Cavalcante "crab-walked" between two walls and scaled a razor-wire fence to escape Chester County Prison, about 30 miles (50km) west of Philadelphia, where he had been awaiting transfer to a different facility. The two-week manhunt spanned a large area of the state and put residents of Chester County on edge, with earlier sightings prompting police to advise residents to lock their doors and stay inside.

Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou has chosen an actress whose Netflix drama sparked a MeToo movement as his running mate in January's presidential election. Tammy Lai, 60, is a veteran in show business but her candidacy has surprised many, given her lack of political experience. Mr Guo, the founder of iPhone maker Foxconn, is running as an independent. Taiwan will vote for a new president in the shadow of an increasingly assertive China. The self-governed island has been a democracy since 1996. Although Chinese claims over it are not new, this election will be the first since Beijing has made it ever clearer that it would not rule out the use of force to take the island. Mr Guo described Ms Lai "as an outstanding, all-round writer and spiritual mentor" while announcing her as his running mate on Thursday. "We have no political baggage, and we are deeply concerned about the needs of the people," he added.

Several websites established around the time of Nigeria's general elections in February 2023 are reaching thousands of people while spreading false news, the BBC has found. A high number of adverts on the websites mean they can be profiting from the spread of disinformation. They weave false stories with factual news about sports, entertainment, and politics - with some publishing as many as 700 pieces per month. They also favour or attack politicians in Nigeria. Almost seven months after the fiercely contested elections, the country remains deeply divided, as witnessed in the reaction to last week's ruling on the opposition challenge to the results. The disinformation spread by these websites may be fuelling these divisions. Lawyer Mojirayo Ogunlana remembers that in the lead-up to the elections, she saw stories being shared on Twitter, now known as X, from websites she had never heard about before. Many were also reaching her WhatsApp groups.

Police in the southern Indian state of Karnataka have arrested a 78-year-old man who was accused of stealing two buffaloes and a calf in 1965. Ganapati Vitthal Wagore was 20 when he was first arrested 58 years ago for the alleged theft, along with another man. Police said they were freed on bail but disappeared after that and could not be traced. His co-accused died in 2006. Last week, a court freed Wagore on bail on account of his old age after his re-arrest. The case had gone cold but it resurfaced a few weeks ago when a team of police looked through old files of pending investigations and decided to make a final attempt to find the men.

Schools and offices have been shut in some parts of the southern Indian state of Kerala after five cases of the rare Nipah virus were confirmed. Two people have died so far, while three others, including a child, are being treated in hospital. Authorities said on Wednesday that they have tested 706 people, including 153 health workers, to check the spread of the virus. They are awaiting results. The is the fourth Nipah outbreak in Kerala since 2018. All the cases have been reported in Kozhikode district in northern Kerala. One of the deaths occurred earlier this month while the other took place on 30 August. The state's chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has asked people to avoid public gatherings in Kozhikode for the next 10 days. He said his government was taking the deaths "very seriously" and asked people to exercise caution by wearing face masks and visit hospitals only for emergencies. But he added that there was no reason to panic as people who were in contact with those who had died were undergoing treatment.

Police in Uganda have banned political rallies organised by opposition leader Robert Kyagulanyi, also known as Bobi Wine, citing public order breaches and defamation against the president. Deputy Inspector-General of Police Tumusiime Katsigazi on Wednesday said one person had died and 10 others seriously injured in the National Unity Platform (NUP) party rallies. Mr Katsigazi warned NUP supporters against what he described as "mob mentality. . . against civilians and security enforcers". The police also accused Mr Kyagulanyi of promoting sectarianism in his rallies which started on Monday. Mr Kyagulanyi has, however, vowed to go on with the rallies and urged his supporters to “wait for a signal”. He is using the rallies to raise grassroots support ahead of the 2026 general elections.

A Russian pilot tried to shoot down an RAF surveillance plane after believing he had permission to fire, the BBC has learned. The pilot fired two missiles, the first of which missed rather than malfunctioned as claimed at the time. Russia had claimed the incident last September was caused by a "technical malfunction". The UK's Ministry of Defence (MoD) publicly accepted the Russian explanation. But now three senior Western defence sources with knowledge of the incident have told the BBC that Russian communications intercepted by the RAF RC-135 Rivet Joint aircraft give a very different account from the official version. The RAF plane - with a crew of up to 30 - was flying a surveillance mission over the Black Sea in international airspace on 29 September last year when it encountered two Russian SU-27 fighter jets.

The mountain village of Imi N’Tala, near the epicentre of the earthquake in Morocco on Friday, was rocked by aftershocks on Wednesday. It sent rescue workers, villagers and journalists running through the rubble. One person sustained minor injuries as the result of a falling rock.

A massive hurricane churning in the Atlantic Ocean is set to impact the east coast of the US and Canada this weekend, according to forecasters. Hurricane Lee turned north on Wednesday and is forecast to grow larger as it travels, becoming a huge hurricane off the New England shore by Friday night. Lee currently has sustained winds of 110 mph (175 km/h), according to the US National Hurricane Center (NHC). Residents in coastal Canada have also been warned to brace for the storm. "Slow weakening is forecast during the next few days, however, Lee is likely to remain a large and dangerous hurricane into the weekend," the NHC said in an advisory on Wednesday. Forecasters say that, due to Lee's large size, areas far from the hurricane's centre could feel its effects. Lee dropped to a category two hurricane on Wednesday. Hurricane force winds can be felt 115 miles (185km) from it's centre, while tropical storm force winds extend outward up to 240 miles.

North Korea's Kim Jong Un and Vladimir Putin have discussed "possibilities" for military cooperation, in a highly scrutinised meeting for a suspected arms deal. The pair met on Wednesday at the Vostochny space centre after Mr Kim arrived in his private armoured train. Mr Putin also said he would help Pyongyang develop satellites. The US says Moscow is buying weapons for its war on Ukraine, and warned any help would violate UN resolutions. Mr Putin has also accepted an invitation from Mr Kim to visit North Korea, according to Pyongyang. Few heads of state have visited the closed-off state. Wednesday's meeting between the two sanctioned regimes, which included senior officials from both sides, took place at a time when their relations with the West are at an all-time low. Mr Kim was warmly received by Mr Putin after travelling for two days to Russia's far east. Russian state media footage showed the two leaders grinning as they shook hands, before Mr Putin personally escorted Mr Kim around the space centre.

A federal judge in Texas has ruled that a longstanding programme protecting migrants who came to the US as children from deportation is unlawful. The judge, however, did not grant a request to terminate those protections over the next two years. Nine Republican-led states sued to end it, claiming they have to spend millions of dollars to support illegal immigrants living in the US. More than half-a-million people - known as Dreamers - are currently enrolled. In his Wednesday ruling, Judge Andrew Hanen kept the programme closed to new applicants but suspended part of the ruling to allow current Daca recipients to renew their enrolment. He said he was "sympathetic" to their situation. Judge Hanen said he believes the fate of the programme should be decided by the US congress rather than by the courts or the president.

France is set to ban disposable e-cigarettes - known locally as "puffs" - because of the danger they pose to the environment and public health. Speaking recently on RTL radio, Prime Minister Élisabeth Borne said the measure was part of a new anti-smoking plan being drawn up by the government. It should be in force by the end of the year, campaigners said. Several other countries in Europe, including Germany, Belgium and Ireland, have announced similar bans. The UK is also said to be considering one. Sold over the counter by tobacconists, disposable vapes in France cost around €9 (£7. 70) - less than a packet of 20 cigarettes. They are supposed to offer around 600 puffs - the rough equivalent of 40 cigarettes. But France's National Academy of Medicine described them as a "particularly sly trap for children and adolescents". According to Élisabeth Borne, "they create a reflex, a gesture, which children get used to, and then end up being drawn to tobacco".

An investigation is under way over a bodycam footage that appears to show a Seattle police officer laughing about a woman fatally struck by a patrol car. Officer Daniel Auderer was responding to an incident where Jaahnavi Kandula, 23, was killed near her university. In the video, the officer is heard suggesting the Indian student's life had "limited value" and the city should "just write a cheque". The officer has said his comments were taken out of context. Ms Kandula, a graduate student at Northeastern University's Seattle campus, was hit and killed by a police car while crossing the street on 23 January. According to The Seattle Times, citing a police investigation report, the officer driving the car was going 74mph (119km/h) and the graduate student's body was thrown more than 100ft (30m). Officer Auderer was called to the incident where his body camera recorded audio from a call he made to a colleague. "But she is dead," the officer is heard saying before laughing. "No, it's a regular person. Yeah, just write a cheque," he says, before laughing again.

Spanish police have arrested a man on suspicion of sexually assaulting a journalist after he allegedly touched her while she was live on TV. Isa Balado was reporting on a Madrid robbery on Tuesday when he walked up and appeared to touch her bottom, which he denied when she confronted him. Ms Balado tried to continue, but was interrupted by the programme's host. "Isa, forgive me for interrupting you. . . but did he just touch your bottom? " Nacho Abad asked. The reporter confirmed it, and Mr Abad told her to put the "idiot" on camera, to which the shot moves to show both Isa Balado and the man, who was still standing with her, smiling and laughing. "As much as you want to ask what channel we are from, do you really have to touch my bottom? I'm doing a live show and I'm working," Ms Balado told him.
Republican lawmaker Lauren Boebert was escorted out of a theatre in Denver during a performance of the musical Beetlejuice, after being accused of disruptive behaviour. An incident report, which does not name her, says two patrons were asked to leave after complaints of vaping, singing, and causing disturbance. Her team confirmed the incident but denied that she was vaping. "I plead guilty to laughing and singing too loud! ," Ms Boebert said on Twitter.

A dog called Colin scampers across the earthquake's wreckage in Morocco's remote mountain village of Douzrou. The bell attached to his collar rings to signal his location as the border collie bounds over broken concrete towards crevices in the rubble - anywhere a survivor might still be found. Colin is a rescue dog with the official UK team that has been deployed in Morocco and he is trained to search for the scent of the living. But this life-saving work takes place against all odds. Locals tell the BBC that they believe there is little hope of finding anyone alive in what is left of their village - before the quake Douzrou had nearly 1,000 inhabitants. But most homes collapsed when the earthquake struck late on Friday, burying part of this hillside community in the ruins of nature's rage.
Romanians living close to the border with Ukraine received emergency alerts early on Wednesday urging them to remain calm and take shelter as Russia hit Ukrainian ports across the Danube. The defence ministry said it had found Russian drone parts on Romanian territory for the third time in a week. Makeshifts concrete shelters are being set up by the Romanian military. But its government has told residents the risk of a cross-border escalation was minimal. Now it has issued a formal complaint to Moscow about Russian drones entering Romanian airspace. Shortly after midnight local time, residents in eight villages in eastern Romania started receiving messages on their phones that warned of "the possibility of falling objects from the surrounding airspace".

More than 5,300 people are believed to have died after floods in the Libyan city of Derna, an official has said. "The sea is constantly dumping dozens of bodies," Hisham Chkiouat, a minister in Libya's eastern administration said. There have been desperate calls for more humanitarian support as victims lie wrapped in body bags and others have been buried in mass graves. A tsunami-like river of floodwater swept through Derna on Sunday after a dam burst during Storm Daniel.
Norway's Princess Martha Louise will marry her American partner, self-styled shaman Durek Verrett, next summer, the couple has announced. King Harald V congratulated the pair, saying he was happy to welcome Mr Verrett to his family. The princess relinquished her royal duties last year to run the alternative medicine business she shares with her fiance. Mr Verrett is known for promoting unfounded medical practices. He has suggested cancer is a choice and sold medallions online said to ward off Covid-19, while Princess Martha Louise has claimed she is able to communicate with angels. They announced their engagement in June 2022 and received the king's blessing. "We are excited to have Durek Verrett join the family and we look forward to celebrating the big day with them," Norway's king and queen said in a statement released on Wednesday.

Three relatives who police want to speak to over the death of 10-year-old Sara Sharif have returned to the UK from Pakistan. A plane carrying her father Urfan Sharif, his wife Beinash Batool and his brother Faisal Malik, has landed at Gatwick Airport. A group of people - thought to be police officers - could be seen boarding the plane. Two police cars and three vans later left the terminal with blue lights on. Surrey Police previously said they wanted to speak to the trio, who left the UK the day before Sara's body was found. A post-mortem examination found she had sustained multiple and extensive injuries. The flight landed at London Gatwick just before 19:30 BST on Wednesday evening, five weeks after the trio left the UK.

Emma Coronel, the wife of jailed Mexican drug lord Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán, has been released from jail in the US. She pleaded guilty to drug trafficking charges and was sentenced to three years in jail in November 2021, a sentence which was later reduced. The Federal Bureau of Prisons confirmed her release. It is believed the 34-year-old left a halfway house in California, where she was moved from federal prison in June. Her husband is serving a life sentence in a supermax jail in Colorado. Last month, he sent a handwritten letter requesting his wife and their two daughters be allowed to visit him in the maximum security prison. El Chapo Guzmán, 66, was found guilty in 2019 of running the Sinaloa cartel.

Tory MP Tobias Ellwood has quit as chair of a Commons committee, following criticism over his comments on Afghanistan. The former defence minister was criticised in July for saying the country had been "transformed" under the Taliban's rule. He was facing a potential no-confidence vote from fellow MPs on the defence select committee. But he has now stood down as chair and will no longer sit on the committee. A source familiar with the situation said the Bournemouth East MP had resigned before he was "pushed".
A British soldier has been charged with second degree murder in Canada after an alleged assault left a man dead. Craig Gibson, 28, is accused of assaulting Brett Sheffield in Toronto city centre at 23:25 local time (03:24 GMT) on Monday 28 August. Mr Sheffield, 38, was taken to hospital with life-threatening injuries and died two days later. Mr Gibson appeared in court on Monday charged with his murder, Toronto Police said. The alleged altercation took place in the Portland Street and King Street West area of downtown Toronto, in the Canadian province of Ontario. Police say "life-saving measures" were attempted at the scene before Mr Sheffield was taken to hospital. He died on 30 August. A spokesperson for the British Army said: "We can confirm a British soldier has been arrested and charged for second degree murder by the Toronto Police, Canada.

Ukraine has said it attacked naval targets and port infrastructure in Crimea, in one of its biggest strikes on the Russian navy's Black Sea fleet. Russia earlier claimed Ukraine had launched 10 missiles and three unmanned boats in the attack. It caused a large fire at a Sevastopol shipyard which left 24 people injured, Russia said. The Moscow-installed governor claimed most of the weapons were intercepted but that two ships had been damaged. Ukraine has strongly implied western-supplied cruise missiles were used in the attack, one of the biggest on the Black Sea fleet since the war started. Unmanned vessels, known by many different names including sea drones and drone boats, operate on or below the water. They usually have built-in explosives and cameras that feed directly back to the person controlling them. A photo shared by Sevastopol Governor Mikhail Razvozhayev on Telegram shows flames engulfing what appears to be a ship at a port as he stands speaking into his phone.

Three volunteers have died while helping victims of raging floods in eastern Libya, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) said. Hamdi Belaid, Khaled Adwal and Abadi Al-Kharm died while helping some of the Derna town residents trapped by the floods, Jagan Chapagain, the IFRC secretary general, said. "I express our profound sadness and send my deepest condolences to their families and our colleagues at the Libyan Red Crescent,” he said.

The former chairman of China Life Insurance, Wang Bin, has become the latest high-profile boss to be imprisoned as Beijing's corruption on the financial industry . Mr Wang was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, according to a court ruling seen by the BBC. After two years, the sentence will be commuted to life in prison without parole, the ruling says. In April, authorities warned that the crackdown was far from over. A court in Jinan in eastern China's Shandong province found Mr Wang guilty of taking 325 million yuan ($44. 6m; £35. 7m) in bribes. Mr Wang, who was the firm's Communist Party chief, was also sentenced to a year in prison for illegally hiding 54. 2 million yuan in overseas deposits. He is the latest boss from a major Chinese financial institution to be ensnared in President Xi Jinping's more than two-year longcrackdown on corruption in the $60 trillion (£48 trillion) industry.
Bodies recovered from a devastating flood which wiped out parts of the port city of Derna in eastern Libya have been buried in mass graves. At least 2,300 people died when a tsunami-like river of floodwater swept through Derna on Sunday after a dam burst during Storm Daniel. A mechanical digger worked in a cemetery where victims wrapped in body bags and blankets were buried together. With 10,000 people reported missing, the death toll is expected to rise. Mohammed Qamaty, a volunteer in Derna, said rescue workers were still searching for victims.
Officials in Canada are investigating a major paediatric outbreak of E. coli that appears to originate in a kitchen that makes meals for nursery children. Alberta's chief medical officer, Dr Mark Joffe, told reporters on Tuesday the kitchen was inspected after a surge in children visiting emergency rooms. Doctors swiftly "linked" the cases to "one centralised kitchen", he said. Officials have not yet determined the exact source of the outbreak, which has so far sickened 264 children. The kitchen is operated by a company called Fueling Brains, which provides food to daycare centres around the city of Calgary - where the outbreak is taking place - as well as the city of Saskatoon. At least six children are undergoing dialysis after suffering kidney failure. More than two dozen others have been diagnosed with haemolytic uraemic syndrome, a disease that harms the kidneys. The children are under the age of five. The number of patients continues to rise, officials say.

A Pennsylvania prison fugitive has armed himself with a stolen rifle, police warn, as the manhunt for the murderer stretches into its 13th day. A police spokesman told a news conference Danelo Cavalcante may be "desperate enough to use that weapon". Officials say the resident gun owner fired a pistol at him as Cavalcante fled. But he is believed to have escaped the shoot out unscathed. Residents have been urged to secure their property and vehicles. More than 500 officers are poring over a roughly 10 sq mile (26 sq km) perimeter in South Coventry Township, north-west of Philadelphia. Cavalcante, a Brazilian national, was sentenced to life in prison last month for killing his ex-girlfriend. But just a week after his sentence, the 34-year-old fled Chester County Prison on 31 August by "crab walking" between two walls, scaling a fence and crossing razor wire.
Morocco's young are powering their country's desperate relief effort. In Taroudant's youth centre, volunteers from across the city and beyond have been answering calls for help on social media. Activists with rapidly rising numbers of followers are now coordinating the distribution of aid to the hundreds of communities without the most essential items. Milk, nappies, jam and bedding are all being passed along human chains, loaded into trucks destined for villages dotted across the Atlas mountains. In many areas, this grassroots effort is getting supplies to those in need faster than official help. "People are in danger. If we didn't work so quickly, a lot of people are going to die," says 21-year-old Ilyas, as he seals another box.

Rescue teams in Libya are struggling to retrieve the bodies of victims that have been swept out to sea in tsunami-like flood waters. At least 2,300 have been killed, according to the ambulance authority in Derna, the worst affected city. Two dams and four bridges collapsed in Derna, submerging much of the city when Storm Daniel hit on Sunday. About 10,000 people are reported missing, the Red Crescent says, and the death toll is expected to rise further. Some aid has started to arrive, including from Egypt, but rescue efforts have been hampered by the political situation in Libya, with the country split between two rival governments. The US, Germany, Iran, Italy, Qatar and Turkey are among the countries that have said they have sent or are ready to send aid. Video footage recorded after dark on Sunday shows a river of floodwater churning through the city with cars bobbing helplessly in the current.

A co-founder of the fraudulent OneCoin cryptocurrency has been sentenced to serve 20 years in a US prison. Sebastian Karl Greenwood colluded with others, including the so-called "Cryptoqueen" who is now on the FBI's top 10 Most Wanted list, officials say. They are accused of scamming more than $4bn (£3. 2bn) from investors. Greenwood, 46, a citizen of the UK and Sweden, was arrested in Thailand in July 2018. He pleaded guilty to wire fraud and money laundering in December. Officials say OneCoin, which was founded in 2014 in Bulgaria, functioned as a global pyramid scheme. Greenwood started and ran the company with Ruja Ignatova, the so-called Cryptoqueen who has not been seen since vanishing in Greece in 2017. OneCoin sought to benefit from the success of Bitcoin, officials say, and "used the notoriety of Bitcoin to convince investors that OneCoin was the next 'can't miss' investment opportunity".

The US House of Representatives will open a formal impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden, its most senior Republican has said. Kevin McCarthy said the inquiry would focus on "allegations of abuse of power, obstruction and corruption" by Mr Biden. Republicans have been investigating the president since they took control of the House in January. The hearings have found no concrete evidence of misconduct by Mr Biden. They have, however, shed more light on business dealings by the president's son Hunter Biden - which Republicans say are questionable - and on Mr Biden's knowledge of his son's activities. In a brief statement at the US Capitol, Mr McCarthy said there were "serious and credible" allegations involving the president's conduct. "Taken together, these allegations paint a picture of a culture of corruption," he said. The White House was quick to condemn Mr McCarthy's decision.

Google has dismissed arguments that it is the world's biggest search engine because of illegal practices like abuse search, saying to switch to another company takes "literally four taps". A lawyer for the company made the remarks in court in Tuesday in Washington DC, where it is facing trial over whether it is a monopoly. The case is a major test of the power of US regulators over the tech giants. Prosecutors said the case was about "the future of the internet". The trial is expected to last 10 weeks and will feature testimony from Google boss Sundar Pichai as well as executives from Apple. Judge Amit Mehta, who was appointed to his position on DC district court by former president Barack Obama, will decide the case - the biggest for the industry in 25 years.
A council leader has pledged to continue the fight against a planned £1. 2bn cross-Channel electricity link as a final decision looms. Aquind Ltd wants to lay cables between Portsmouth and Normandy in France. Portsmouth City Council has recently entered into an agreement with the firm to ensure sea defence work is not hindered by the plans. But leader Steve Pitt has insisted the authority will continue to "strongly oppose" the interconnector scheme. The proposals were first submitted in 2019. A government decision to block the project, made in 2022, was overturned in the High Court. That meant the plans were sent back to ministers who are set to make a final decision soon.

The wives of two divers are still seeking justice who died two days apart on a diving trip in Greece say they are "disappointed" they still do not have answers over their deaths. Vincent Hong, from South Cave, and Timothy Saville, from Huddersfield, died off the island of Kea in 2019. On Wednesday, Senior East Yorkshire Coroner Professor Paul Marks returned an open conclusion following a joint inquest into their deaths. Mr Hong's wife, Lily Yeung Hong, said: "We want truth and justice. " "Two divers went on the trip of a lifetime and never came back. We just have to pursue to find the answer," she added. Following the inquest, Mr Saville's wife, Elizabeth Saville, said: "I feel disappointed we've not got definitive answers. All we've got are a number of possibilities. "
German prosecutors have charged a 98-year-old man with complicity in the murder of some 3,300 people at a Nazi concentration camp in World War Two. The man, not yet named, was an adolescent when he served as a guard at Sachsenhausen between July 1943 and February 1945, the indictment says. He allegedly assisted in the "cruel and insidious" mass killing of inmates. Since 2011, Germany has prosecuted ex-Nazis for complicity - not only for murder or torture as individuals. But it is a race against time, as those indicted have been very old and some have died before going on trial. The Nazi SS imprisoned more than 200,000 people at Sachsenhausen, including political prisoners, Jews, captured Soviet soldiers, Roma and Sinti (Gypsies). Tens of thousands of inmates died from starvation, forced labour, medical experiments and murder by the SS. The camp was built north of Berlin in 1936.

A controversial NZ$500m ($298m) housing development plan in New Zealand has been scuppered by Lord of the Rings director Sir Peter Jackson. He and his wife Dame Fran Walsh, who co-wrote the film trilogy, have bought the former Air Force Base at Shelly Bay in the country's capital, Wellington. It means that plans to build hundreds of houses, as well as commercial businesses, will no longer take place. Mr Jackson and Ms Walsh say they want to restore the bay's "natural beauty". "It's a wonderful coastline that holds a great deal of cultural and historical significance," Mr Jackson and Ms Walsh said in a statement. The pair, who are both from the Wellington area, have been long-term opponents of the development. "Our immediate goal is to start the landscaping and replanting work required to return Shelly Bay to its natural state. " Mr Jackson and Ms Walsh said they would look at ways the land could be used for both arts and recreation in the longer term.

Russia has said that BAE System's new business in Ukraine will be an "object of special attention" for its military. The UK defence giant has signed deals to ramp up weapons and equipment supplies to Kyiv, which include ultimately producing light artillery in the country. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the Russians saw the move "in a negative light". BAE has made much of the arms the UK and other nations have sent to Ukraine. Since Russia's invasion of the country in February 2022, Britain has become a major defence supplier to Ukraine. The BBC understands that BAE has not yet opened an office or factory in Ukraine but is in discussions about potentially doing so. The firm said the move will allow it to work directly with Ukraine to explore potential partners and produce some weapons there.

A man has died after he was struck by a bus in Dublin city centre on Thursday night. The incident occurred at the corner of Store Street and Amiens Street, at about 23:30 local time. The man, in his 20s, was pronounced dead at the scene and his body was removed to the City Morgue at Whitehall. No other injuries were reported and the scene has been cordoned off for a technical examination. The man's death brings to six the number of people killed on Irish roads since Monday. Busáras was closed due to the incident but has since reopened. Bus Éireann has said its services are returning to normal. Luas Red Line services had been curtailed but a full service has resumed.

The acting mayor of South Sudan's capital city, Juba, has been sacked after he was caught on camera apparently slapping a member of the public. Emmanuel Khamis Richard had refused to resign despite mounting pressure from fellow politicians since footage of him appearing to assault the female street vendor went viral a week ago. His dismissal was announced by the governor of Central Equatoria state on Friday evening, then more widely reported over the weekend. The governor acted after MPs had sent him a letter unanimously calling for the mayor's removal. Mr Khamis Richard hasn't admitted or denied slapping the woman. Before his sacking he had been summoned to appear before councillors in Juba to answer for his actions, but he didn't appear and instead requested a two-week reprieve. No successor has yet been appointed. But the head of Juba city council, Martin Simon Wani, has been ordered to supervise the general activities of the municipality for the time being.
Edgar Lungu was allegedly blocked from travelling to South Korea for a conferenceImage caption: Edgar Lungu was allegedly blocked from travelling to South Korea for a conference Zambia's former President Edgar Lungu has taken the government to court after he was allegedly blocked from travelling to South Korea for a conference. It is alleged that Mr Lungu was invited for a world peace conference but when he was about to depart, he was ejected from his plane because he did not have the government’s clearance to travel. Mr Lungu is now seeking a judicial review in the Lusaka High Court, where he is challenging the government’s decision to stop him from travelling to South Korea, according to court papers he has filed. His party, the Patriotic Front (PF), has condemned the government's alleged action, calling it illegal. "If he is invited and the trip is paid for or he can meet the cost of his own trip and that of his entourage, he doesn't need to inform governments," argued Emmanuel Mwamba, the PF's spokesperson.

The Malian military says it has deployed additional troops to an area of the country where Tuareg rebels have been attacking army bases. A military statement did not give details of Sunday's fighting in the town of Léré in the Timbuktu region. It said recent military operations had significantly reduced what it called the threat of terrorism. An alliance of Tuareg groups that re-launched a rebellion last month said it had captured two bases from the Malian army in Sunday's fighting. The violence between the Coordination of Azawad Movements (CMA) and the army is intensifying as thousands of UN peacekeeping troops were ordered to leave the country. Al-Qaeda-linked jihadists are also carrying out attacks in the Timbuktu region.

A doctor who deleted medical records in a bid to cover up mistakes has been suspended for three months. Dr Victor Ebenuwa, a partner at the Margaret Thompson Medical Centre in Speke, also misdiagnosed a patient's condition and medication, a medical practitioners tribunal hearing heard. He had misread blood test results and prescribed treatment for an overactive, rather than underactive thyroid. He expressed "regret and apologies" when his errors came to light. When he realised his mistake, Dr Ebenuwa deleted records and changed data to show the medication he had prescribed was actually part of the man's existing medical history, the hearing heard. The tribunal was told how in March 2021, the man known as Patient A, had a consultation with Dr Ebenuwa and was sent for tests. The GP then put Patient A on medication to treat thyroid deficiency. He realised his mistake a month later, when the man was admitted to Whiston Hospital after having a heart attack.
Five members of a Greek humanitarian aid team and three members of a Libyan family have died in a road collision in eastern Libya. The rescuers were among a team who were travelling on a bus to the flood-ravaged city of Derna on Sunday when their vehicle collided with a car carrying the family. Two others in the car and eight others on the bus were seriously injured, according to a Libyan official. An investigation has been opened. Othman Abdeljalil, health minister in the administration that runs the east of the country, told a news conference the team had been travelling from the eastern city of Benghazi when the crash happened. He put the death toll at four, but Greek officials said five members of their humanitarian aid team were killed.

Ex-Wales centre Jamie Roberts has said that Fiji's victory over Australia was the "worst possible result" for Wales. The Fijians bounced back from their defeat to Wales to claim a 22-15 victory over the Aussies - their first over the Wallabies at a World Cup. The victory has blown Pool C at the Rugby World Cup wide open. Wales fans in France were all too aware of the implications it had for them, but many cheered on the Pacific Islanders regardless. One Wales fan described the win as being "difficult for Wales, but great for rugby". With Wales having laboured to victory over Portugal in Nice on Saturday, many fans have remained on the Mediterranean coast before they journey to Lyon for their clash against Australia on Sunday.

Staff of embattled property developer Evergrande's wealth management unit have been detained by police in Shenzhen, southern China. In a post on social media police called on the public to report any cases of suspected fraud. Meanwhile, the takeover of the firm's insurance arm by a newly created state-owned insurer was announced on Friday. Evergrande is at the centre of a crisis that has engulfed China's real estate industry since 2021. "Recently, public security organs took criminal compulsory measures against Du and other suspected criminals at Evergrande Financial Wealth Management Co," Shenzhen Nanshan District Police Bureau said on Saturday. No further details were given on how many people were detained, their identities - except for the person identified only as Du - or what charges they could face.

A Gold Coast man who filmed himself taking his pet snake for a surf has been fined by Australian wildlife authorities. Higor Fiuza and his bredli carpet python Shiva became local celebrities earlier this month after video of them catching waves went viral. But their short-lived fame also tipped off wildlife protection officers. They say the man endangered Shiva and breached his permit to keep the snake by taking her out in public. Queensland's Department of Environment and Science says it began investigating the surfing duo after Mr Fiuza appeared in local media, and this week issued him a fine of A$2,322 (£1,207; $1,495). Taking native pets out in public can cause them "unnecessary stress" and could make them "behave in an unpredictable way", wildlife officer Jonathan McDonald said in a statement. "Snakes are obviously cold-blooded animals, and while they can swim, reptiles generally avoid water," he said. "The python would have found the water to be extremely cold, and the only snakes that should be in the ocean are sea snakes. "

The treatment of A-levels in the Republic of Ireland's university admissions system is disadvantaging students from Northern Ireland, a new study suggests. Maximum admission points can only be achieved by students who take four A-levels. It is standard for Northern Ireland students to take three A-levels, with only an estimated 4% taking four. Universities Ireland has set up a working group to look at the issue. The new report has been produced by the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) in partnership with the Irish government's Shared Island Unit. It said a modern language requirement for many university courses in the Republic of Ireland also disadvantaged potential applicants from north of the border.
17 people have been killed by a landslide in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The disaster occurred overnight on Sunday near the banks of the Congo river, in the northern city of Lisala, the capital of Mongala province. Seven women, seven men and three children under five years died. They were buried the same day due to lack of space to keep them at the local mortuary, Lisala official Désiré Koyo told the BBC. The deaths followed days of torrential rain. Witnesses said several houses along the river had been submerged and residents were struggling to rescue people from the rubble. The governor of Mongala, César Limbaya, sent his condolences to all the families of the deceased. He has declared three days of mourning starting from Monday, during which flags will be flying at half mast.
An Italian military jet has crashed while taking part in an acrobatic exercise in Turin killing a five-year-old girl in a car on the ground. Video shows the pilot, who survived, ejecting moments before impact followed by a huge fireball near Turin Caselle Airport. Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni named the girl as Laura Origliasso. Ms Meloni wrote on social media and said Laura's death had left her deeply saddened and "speechless". Laura's brother was seriously hurt, while their parents suffered burns. Earlier, Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini said the crash was a "terrible tragedy". Video filmed near Turin's main airport shows nine aircraft gaining altitude in two tight formations before one peels away and starts to fall out of the sky. As the plane crashes to the ground, thick black smoke billows as the pilot can be seen parachuting after ejecting from the aircraft.

More than 200 Eritrean opposition supporters have been arrested in Germany after clashing with police. The violence erupted as an Eritrean cultural festival was set to begin in the city of Stuttgart on Saturday. The festival was organised by supporters of the Eritrean regime loyal to Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki. Police sent to the scene found themselves caught in "massive violence" between the two opposing groups, the deputy police commissioner said. "Neither the extent nor the intensity of the violence was apparent in advance," Carsten Hoefler said in a statement on Saturday. Officers were attacked with bats, nails, metal rods, bottles and stones, the statement added. Six officers were admitted to hospital, while 228 people were arrested. The violence has been condemned by officials in the city. "We must take decisive action against the emergence of conflicts from other states on German soil," said Stuttgart Mayor Frank Nopper, according to German news agency dpa. The chaos follows a string of similar recent protests. As Eritrea marks 30 years of independence from Ethiopia, festivals have been held by members of its diaspora in recent months, with many ending in conflict.

Foreign Secretary James Cleverly has refused to say whether he spoke to the Chinese government about a researcher in Parliament who was arrested on suspicion of spying for China. Mr Cleverly said both he and the prime minister had spoken to Chinese leaders about "interference in our democracy". But, asked if he raised the allegations with Beijing, he said he would not comment on "security related matters". The researcher has said he is "completely innocent". Last weekend, the Metropolitan Police confirmed that two men had been arrested in March under the Official Secrets Act. Sources have told the BBC that one of the men had been a parliamentary researcher involved in international affairs issues.
More Americans than ever are dying from fentanyl overdoses as the fourth wave of the opioid epidemic crashes through every community, in every corner of the country. It was six years ago that Kim Blake's son Sean died from an accidental fentanyl overdose in Burlington, Vermont. He was 27 years old. "Every time I hear of a loss to substance use, my heart breaks a little more," Ms Blake wrote in a blog dedicated to her son in 2021. "Another family shattered. Forever grieving the loss of dreams and celebrations. " That year, the US witnessed a grim milestone: for the first time ever, drug overdoses killed more than 100,000 people across the country in one single year.
Sadiq Khan is flying to New York for four days to attend a series of events including an international climate conference. The mayor of London is expected to speak at the United Nations climate ambition summit on Wednesday. He will also use the visit to meet representatives from US businesses and investors looking at London. His trip takes place three weeks after the controversial expansion of the Ultra Low Emission Zone (Ulez). What Mr Khan says about the zone to his American audience will be watched closely. The mayor said he was "honoured" to have been invited to attend the UN climate summit.
The RNLI says it is losing income due to safety concerns about Mumbles Pier. The Mumbles Lifeboat Station is located at the end of the pier, but in January its slipway was deemed unsafe and the crew were moved to a temporary station further along the coast. Concerns have been raised locally about the time it is taking for repairs to be carried out. The pier owners said they did not currently have the funds to restore the structure. There has been an RNLI lifeboat at The Mumbles, in Swansea, since 1835 when the local MP arranged with the institution for the purchase of a lifeboat. A new lifeboat station was opened on the pier in 2014. With crew facilities and a shop, it is one of the busiest in Wales. But in January 2023, safety concerns meant the slipway used by the all-weather lifeboat had to close and the volunteers were moved to a temporary station further along the coast.

Global oil prices have surged to the highest level in more than 10 months amid predictions of shorter supplies. Brent crude, a benchmark for prices, rose above $95 per barrel on Tuesday. It came as the International Energy Agency (IEA) said a decision by Saudi Arabia and Russia to cut production could cause a "significant supply shortfall" by the end of this year. The RAC motoring group warned higher oil prices meant drivers were "in for a hard time" at the fuel pumps. Latest figures show UK drivers are now paying £1. 55 on average per litre, with diesel at £1. 59. Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, oil prices soared, hitting more than $120 a barrel in June last year. They fell back to a little above $70 a barrel in May this year, but have steadily risen since then as producers have tried to restrict output to support the market.
The City watchdog has found no proof that politicians' bank accounts are being closed primarily because of their views, the BBC understands. The findings by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), due to be published later today, follow a row over the closure of former UKIP leader Nigel Farage's account at Coutts. Mr Farage, who claimed his account was shut over his views, told the BBC the findings were "total nonsense". The FCA declined to comment. According to the Financial Times, which first reported the news, the FCA's investigation looked at data from 34 banks and payment companies covering the period from June 2022 to June 2023. Out of the information it examined, there were no cases where political views were the main reason for personal accounts being shut.

UN cultural body Unesco has urged the government to make amendments to a controversial plan for a road tunnel near Stonehenge. The World Heritage Site (WHS) is at risk of being placed on the danger list if changes are not made to the proposed tunnel scheme on the A303. National Highways' plans were approved by the government in July. The government says the scheme is needed to tackle a "long-standing traffic bottleneck". Unesco wants the government to act before the World Heritage Committee meets again in February 2024. Earlier in September, leading members of The Stonehenge Alliance and Save Stonehenge World Heritage Site took a petition to the Unesco headquarters in Paris.

A man whose brother died after being hit by a car travelling at 30mph has said the new 20mph default limit will be worth it if lives are saved. Wales has become the first country in the UK to reduce speed limits in built-up areas from 30mph to 20mph. Gareth Parry, whose brother Keith was killed in 1994, called it a "fantastic change. " But the move has been controversial, with criticism from the Welsh Conservatives and UK ministers. A Senedd petition calling for the Welsh government to remove the 20mph law has gained more than 60,000 signatures. Natasha Asghar, the Welsh Conservative's shadow transport minister, said the petition "highlights that there has been little to no consultation with the general public".

Scotland will transition from Europe's oil and gas capital to its net-zero capital as it provides "moral leadership" on the climate crisis, Humza Yousaf has claimed. The first minister said his government was "putting money where our mouth is" during a speech at a New York Climate Week event. He announced funding for countries worst affected by climate change. Mr Yousaf was the keynote speaker at an event on "financing climate justice". He warned countries in the global south who had contributed least to global CO2 emissions were bearing the brunt of the climate emergency.

An infant school went into lockdown after a samurai sword and air rifle were discovered in the grounds. Firearms officers attended and the weapons seized after the site was searched. Gwent Police said they were called to Bedwas Infant School at about 10:00 BST on 15 September. Det Ch Insp Mike Preston said the Caerphilly county school was locked down to keep the children and staff safe from "any potential harm". "Both items were seized by officers and there is no ongoing threat to anyone currently at the school," he added. The force said the sword was in a sheath. "We will be looking into how these two items of concern made their way onto the school grounds," Det Ch Insp Preston said. A school spokesman confirmed "suspicious items" were discovered in the grounds.

Bringing 36 more politicians to the Welsh Parliament could cost as much as £17. 8m extra a year, new figures suggest. Documents from Labour ministers have estimated the cost of a bigger Senedd for the first time. Costs could reach £19. 5m in 2030, on top of the Senedd's existing budget of £67m. Supporters say more politicians are needed because the Senedd has more powers than it did when it was set up. But the Welsh Conservatives said Wales needs "more doctors, dentists, nurses and teachers, not more politicians". The Welsh government said it was a "once-in-a-generation opportunity to. . . strengthen our democracy". First Minister Mark Drakeford said the estimates were at the "top-end" of the possible cost and that he hoped it would be less than that.

The government's Troubles legacy bill is set to face several legal challenges at Belfast High Court, with five more issued on Monday. The new cases, issued via Belfast firm KRW Law, mostly involve relatives of people who died during the conflict. The bill will now face at least 11 separate legal challenges, after Madden & Finucane solicitors launched cases on behalf of six people on Friday. The bill passed its last parliamentary stage and is awaiting Royal Assent. It offers a conditional amnesty to those accused of killings during 30 years of violence known as the Troubles. It will also stop any new Troubles-era court cases and inquests being held. There has been widespread opposition to the bill. Opponents of the legislation, including victims' groups and Stormont parties, argued it will remove access to justice.
A weightlifter died when a bar he was lifting fell on his neck of 60kg, an inquest heard on Monday. Carl Hughes, 61, was found on 9 September in his flat in Rhos Road, Rhos-on-Sea, by a neighbour who checked on him after he did not collect his newspaper. He was lying on a bench in his bedroom with a bar weighing 60kg on his neck. A pathologist gave a provisional cause of death as asphyxia secondary to compression of the neck by a bar. John Gittins, senior coroner for North Wales East and Central, adjourned the inquest to a date to be fixed.
Wales' national adviser on sexual violence has described how she was sexually harassed by a man at a football match. Johanna Robinson said it happened at the Cardiff City-Swansea City Championship match on Saturday night. She said a man sitting behind her repeatedly grabbed her after she had told him to stop. Cardiff City director Steve Borley said the club will investigate the incident and include the police if appropriate. Ms Robinson, who has previously been a season ticket holder at the club, said she was sitting alone at the match after giving her original ticket away. "Almost as soon as I sat down the man behind me started tapping me, trying to talk in my ear and crouching over my shoulder," said Ms Robinson, whose title is Wales' National Adviser for Violence Against Women, Gender Based Violence, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence.
Surveys will be carried out at 120 schools across Northern Ireland to check for collapse-prone concrete, the Education Authority (EA) has said. It comes after dozens of UK schools had buildings closed or faced safety measures because Reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete (Raac) was found. The concrete can become less stable and "crumbly" over time. It led to schools in Northern Ireland being checked for Raac as a matter of urgency. Now the Education Authority says it has identified 120 schools - about 10% of all Northern Ireland schools - for survey on the basis of building fabric, age and type of construction. It said the safety of staff and pupils is of "paramount importance" and analysis of the survey results will "determine what further action is required in the coming months".

Two men have been charged after five people were attacked by a dog. On Friday a man was taken to hospital with injuries to his arm after he and four others were bitten. Thomas Loftus, 28, has been charged with affray, actual bodily harm, common assault and owning or possessing a dog dangerously out of control. Ian Loftus, 58, has been charged with affray, actual bodily harm and owning or possessing a dog dangerously out of control. It happened during a "disturbance" at Palins Holiday Park, Kinmel Bay, Conwy county, on Friday at about 22:00 BST. Police said: "The suspects were subsequently arrested following an investigation led by North Wales Police CID. "The dog was seized from a residential address and remains in appropriate kennels where its welfare is being managed. " Previously the force's Det Sgt Jon Rich said the dog was not believed to be a Bully XL.
Lessons are not being learnt from self-inflicted deaths at a west London jail because inquests are being delayed, the government has been warned. Labour MP Andy Slaughter believes investigations into deaths at HMP Wormwood Scrubs are taking too long. There were 10 self-inflicted deaths at the Victorian prison between 2018 and 2022, according to official figures. Prisons minister Damian Hinds said he was "absolutely determined" to reduce levels of self-harm. Mr Slaughter, the MP for Hammersmith, said he believed a backlog at coroners' courts meant important lessons that could be learnt from inquests were being delayed, potentially risking further harm to prisoners. In Parliament, Mr Slaughter has raised the case of Wormwood Scrubs inmate Luke Clarke, 38, who was found dead in his cell in April 2020.
Journalists in Northern Ireland who work for regional publisher National World have gone on strike over what has been described as a "crisis" in the industry. Members of the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) are starting a series of strikes over pay and conditions. National World operates more than 100 newspapers across the UK. One NUJ representative said some journalists were relying on second incomes or food banks. National World has declined to comment on the industrial action. Staff taking part in the action in Northern Ireland include those at the News Letter, the oldest English language daily paper in circulation, and the Derry Journal, Ireland's second oldest newspaper. The NUJ said the industrial action was the first time in the Journal's 251-year history that staff had gone on strike.

A man who was injured in a car crash in Killough, County Down, earlier this month has died from his injuries, police have confirmed. Robert Wiseman, who was in his 70s, was driving a car that was involved in a collision with a tractor on the Downpatrick Road on 5 September. His Peugeot car and a New Holland tractor towing a trailer, collided shortly before 16:00 BST. The driver of the tractor sustained minor injuries. Police have appealed for anyone who was travelling in the area at the time of the crash or who has dash-cam footage to contact them.

Ex-Wales centre Jamie Roberts has said that Fiji's victory over Australia was the "worst possible result" for Wales. The Fijians bounced back from their defeat to Wales to claim a 22-15 victory over the Aussies - their first over the Wallabies at a World Cup. The victory has blown Pool C at the Rugby World Cup wide open. Wales fans in France were all too aware of the implications it had for them, but many cheered on the Pacific Islanders regardless. One Wales fan described the win as being "difficult for Wales, but great for rugby". With Wales having laboured to victory over Portugal in Nice on Saturday, many fans have remained on the Mediterranean coast before they journey to Lyon for their clash against Australia on Sunday. Some took in an evening at the city's beachfront promenade in the company of Roberts, capped 97 times by Wales and the Lions, who reflected on Wales' World Cup results.

Sir Keir Starmer has said he will seek a "much better" Brexit deal with the EU if Labour wins the next general election. The opposition leader told the Financial Times that the current deal, which is due for review in 2025, is "too thin". Sir Keir was speaking at a conference of centre-left leaders in Montreal, Canada. But he ruled out re-joining the customs union, the single market or the EU. It remains unclear, however, if Brussels would be open to making major changes to the agreement, which was agreed by former Conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson in 2021. A Conservative spokesman accused the Labour leader of changing his position, saying: "Three years ago he promised he wouldn't seek major changes to the UK's new relationship with the EU, but now his latest short term position is that he will.

The treatment of A-levels in the Republic of Ireland's university admissions system is disadvantaging students from Northern Ireland, a new study suggests. Maximum admission points can only be achieved by students who take four A-levels. It is standard for Northern Ireland students to take three A-levels, with only an estimated 4% taking four. Universities Ireland has set up a working group to look at the issue. The new report has been produced by the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) in partnership with the Irish government's Shared Island Unit. It said a modern language requirement for many university courses in the Republic of Ireland also disadvantaged potential applicants from north of the border.

A gold key given to a philanthropist who opened a Scottish theatre will be exhibited to mark the venue's refurbishment. The industrialist Andrew Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Fife, in 1835. In 1899 he opened the Kirkcaldy Adam Smith Theatre and was in turn given the gold key. And the striking gift is now set to go on display to mark the venue's recent £7. 8m makeover. The key was one of two given out when the venue was inaugurated almost 124 years ago. Carnegie, who died in Massachusetts in 1919, is said to have given almost 90% of his fortune to charities, foundations, and universities - about £273m ($338m).

People 65 and over in England are being urged to get a top-up booster vaccine against Covid at a time when more people are coming into hospitals with the virus. Those who are eligible can book via the NHS website, on the NHS app, or by calling 119. The rollout has been brought forward as a precaution against a highly-mutated new Covid variant called BA. 2. 86. While hospital numbers are up, intensive care admissions are low. Although the virus is mutating and changing, the vaccines still provide good protection against getting very sick with Covid, say experts.

Fashion giant H&M has become the latest retailer to charge shoppers who return items bought online. Customers now must pay £1. 99 to return parcels either in store or online, with the cost taken from their refund. However, returns are still free for H&M members. Rival retailers such as Zara, Boohoo, Uniqlo and Next already charge for online returns. An H&M spokesperson told the BBC the move was introduced in the summer. Online shopping rose strongly during the pandemic, but this has also meant a big increase in the number of items being sent back because they do not fit, or are not as expected.

Elon Musk has suggested that all users of X, formerly called Twitter, may have to pay for access to the platform. In a conversation with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the billionaire said a payment system was the only way to counter bots. "We're moving to having a small monthly payment for use of the system," the Tesla and SpaceX boss said. The BBC approached X for further details but has not yet received a statement from the company. It is unclear whether this was just an off-the-cuff comment, or a signal of firmer plans that have yet to be announced. Mr Musk has long said that his solution for getting rid of bots and fake accounts on the social media platform is charging for verification. Since taking over Twitter last year he has looked to incentivise users to pay for an enhanced service, which is now called X Premium.
Post Office workers who have had wrongful convictions for theft and false accounting overturned are to be offered £600,000 each in compensation, the government has said. But Harjinder Butoy, who served 18 months in prison, said: "It's not enough". Around 700 prosecutions of branch managers may have received evidence from faulty accounting software. The fault made it look like money was missing from their sites. So far, 86 convictions have been overturned. The Post Office minister said the sum was offered with "no ifs or buts". The compensation is for postmasters whose convictions relied on the now discredited Horizon IT system, in return for them settling their claims. Postmasters who have already received initial compensation payments, or have reached a settlement with the Post Office of less than £600,000, will be paid the difference.

Two pubs a day have disappeared in England and Wales in the first half of the year, according to government statistics. Figures showed that 230 pubs vanished in the three months to 30 June - an increase over the previous quarter when the doors to 153 pubs shuttered. It means 383 pubs were demolished or converted for other uses between January and June. Campaigners have called for planning laws to change to protect pubs. It comes after The Crooked House pub in the West Midlands - once dubbed the UK's "wonkiest" public house - was gutted in a fire and then demolished without full permission in August, provoking outrage in the community and beyond.
A family is locked in dispute with Ryanair after being charged £165 to check in at the airport and being told by the airline that they had "unchecked themselves". Damian Lloyd had checked in his family a month in advance, and brought the printed boarding passes to the airport. But the barcodes would not scan so the family had to pay to check in again. Mr Lloyd tried to reclaim the money but Ryanair said they had unchecked before flying, so the fee was justified. After several weeks of email exchanges, the airline has now referred Mr Lloyd to a dispute resolution service.
Staff of embattled property developer Evergrande's wealth management unit have been detained by police in Shenzhen, southern China. In a post on social media police called on the public to report any cases of suspected fraud. Meanwhile, the takeover of the firm's insurance arm by a newly created state-owned insurer was announced on Friday. Evergrande is at the centre of a crisis that has engulfed China's real estate industry since 2021. "Recently, public security organs took criminal compulsory measures against Du and other suspected criminals at Evergrande Financial Wealth Management Co," Shenzhen Nanshan District Police Bureau said on Saturday. No further details were given on how many people were detained, their identities - except for the person identified only as Du - or what charges they could face.

Mike Ashley's Frasers Group is in talks to sell its Missguided clothing brand to online fashion giant Shein, the BBC understands. Talks about a deal, which were first reported by Sky News, come only a year after Frasers took over the brand. Frasers Group bought Missguided for £20m last year after the online fashion retailer collapsed into administration. Shein, which was founded in China in 2008, is a global giant in the world of fast fashion. Both Frasers Group and Shein have been contacted for comment. According to Sky, a deal is likely to see Shein buy Missguided's brand and other intellectual property, while the head office is retained by Frasers. Manchester-based Missguided was founded by Nitin Passi in 2009 and grew to become one of the UK's biggest online fashion players. 
Train drivers have announced two more strikes as part of a long-running dispute over pay and conditions. The Aslef union said its members at 16 train companies in England would walk out on 30 September and 4 October. It added an overtime ban for drivers would take place on 29 September and for five days from 2 to 6 October. The industrial action also coincides with the Conservative Party conference, which will be held in Manchester from 1 to 4 October. Services are expected to be cancelled and cause disruption on the strike and overtime ban days. Transport Secretary Mark Harper described the latest strikes as "cynical" and "politically motivated". Both the train drivers' union Aslef and the RMT, which represents other rail workers, have been locked in a row with train companies over pay and working conditions, leading to regular strikes in the past 18 months.

The government has refused to guarantee the future of the HS2 rail line between Birmingham and Manchester. A Downing Street spokesperson instead suggested that ministers would need to balance the interests of "passengers and taxpayers". Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and Chancellor Jeremy Hunt met on Wednesday and discussed the HS2 project. Their primary concerns are said to be over spiralling costs and delays to the project. "Spades are already in the ground on our HS2 programme and we're focused on delivering it," the prime minister's official spokesman said. Asked whether Mr Sunak was committed to the line going to Manchester, the spokesman did not confirm whether it would, saying: "We are committed to HS2, to the project. " However, No 10 did confirm that ministers were looking at "rephasing" the project, hinting at a possible delay.

An American fast food chain Chick-Fil-A met with protests from the gay community last time it opened in the UK is planning to have another go. Chick-Fil-A aims to open five restaurants in the UK. The sites have not yet been chosen, but the first will open in early 2025. Its previous foray into the UK market in 2019 faced a boycott over its founders' support for Christian groups opposed to same-sex marriage. The firm is still run by the Cathy family which founded it, but has made a policy change in recent years. It appointed its first head of diversity in 2020 and has changed its approach to charitable giving, focusing on education and hunger alleviation. However, the family's Christian values mean restaurants do not open on Sundays, a policy that will also apply in the UK. "From our earliest days, we've worked to positively influence the places we call home and this will be the same for our stores in the UK," said Joanna Symonds, Chick-Fil-A's head of UK operations.
Lidl has revealed its British business swung to a loss last year as a result of its expansion plans and costs rising "across the board". The discount supermarket reported a full-year pre-tax loss of £75. 9m, after posting profits of £41. 1m the year before. Lidl said it had opened more than 50 shops in a year and increased its market share among its rivals. It added it had "held firm on its promise" of lower prices for shoppers. Lidl, and its fellow German discount chain Aldi, have seen their popularity increase as customers have switched from bigger supermarkets due to household budgets being squeezed by the rising cost of living. In its latest results, Lidl said its sales rose by 18. 8% to £9. 3bn, but its losses could be "attributed to the significant investments. . . alongside the challenging inflationary environment which led to an increase in costs across the board".

No new offshore wind project contracts have been bought by developers at a key government auction, dealing a blow to the UK's renewable power strategy. Results showed no bids for new offshore wind farms, but there were deals for solar, tidal and onshore wind projects. Firms have argued the price set for electricity generated was too low to make offshore wind projects viable. The government said a "global rise" in inflation impacting supply chains had "presented challenges for projects". It said while offshore and floating offshore wind projects did not feature on the agreed deals list, the outcome was "in line with similar results in countries including Germany and Spain".

Shares in Apple have fallen for a second day in a row after reports that Chinese government workers have been banned from using iPhones. The firm's stock market valuation has fallen by more than 6%, or almost $200bn (£160bn), in the past two days. China is the technology giant's third-largest market, accounting for 18% of its total revenue last year. It is also where most of Apple's products are manufactured by its biggest supplier Foxconn. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported on Wednesday that Beijing had ordered central government agency officials to not bring iPhones into the office or use them for work. The following day, Bloomberg News reported that the ban may also be imposed on workers at state-owned companies and government-backed agencies.

Natural gas prices have jumped after strike action kicked off at two major liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities in Australia. The walkouts, in a row over pay and conditions, are taking place at Chevron's Gorgon and Wheatstone plants in Western Australia. The US energy giant's two plants account for more than 5% of global LNG capacity. On Friday, wholesale gas prices in the UK rose by about 10%. "Prices are up this morning… but in a rather moderate way," said analysts at Engie EnergyScan. "We have not yet reached the stage of a drop in supply. So, no need to panic in a context where all other fundamentals are rather bearish," they added. Australia is one of the world's largest exporters of LNG, along with Qatar and the US, and its supplies have helped to cool global energy prices after Russia began cutting its supplies of natural gas to Europe.

Another former FTX executive has pleaded guilty in the US in a case stemming from the dramatic collapse and bankruptcy of the once popular cryptocurrency exchange. Ryan Salame, one of the firm's top executives, admitted he had violated campaign finance laws and operated an illegal money-transmitting business. He agreed to surrender more than $1. 5bn (£1. 2bn) to authorities. The pleading comes ahead of the October trial of FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried. Mr Bankman-Fried, the so-called former 'King of Crypto, was arrested last year on fraud charges, after FTX filed for bankruptcy, leaving many users unable to withdraw their funds. Prosecutors have said the fall stemmed from a massive scheme run by Mr Bankman-Fried. He is accused of misusing money from investors and customers from FTX to pay for property, political donations and plug losses at his hedge fund, Alameda Research.
Five million disposable vapes are thrown away each week in the UK, a fourfold increase over the past year, according to research from recycling campaign group Material Focus. Only 17% of vapers recycle their vapes in the correct recycling bins, the research found. Vapes can cause fires in bin lorries and waste treatment facilities if not disposed of correctly. The vaping industry says it is working to improve recycling rates. Disposable vapes, cheap plastic devices designed to give a few hundred puffs of nicotine vapour before being thrown away, are often discarded in bins and on roadsides. Material Focus, a non-profit organisation which campaigns to increase recycling rates, calculated that UK adults buy about 30 million vapes a month, a huge increase that reflects the rapid growth in popularity of these products.
House prices fell at their fastest annual rate in 14 years in August, according to the Halifax, as rising mortgage rates affected the market. The lender said that property values had dropped by 4. 6% in the year to the end of August, representing a fall of £14,000 in the average price. However, it pointed out that this was compared to record high property prices last summer. The Halifax is predicting further falls through the rest of the year. It said prices had dropped by 1. 9% between July and August alone. "We may now be seeing a greater impact from higher mortgage costs flowing through to house prices," said Kim Kinnaird, director of mortgages at the Halifax. "The market will continue to rebalance until it finds an equilibrium where buyers are comfortable with mortgage costs in a higher range than seen over the previous 15 years. "
China's exports have dropped for fourth month in a row as the "world's factory" struggles with weak demand at home and abroad. Exports fell 8. 8% in August compared with a year earlier, while imports dropped 7. 3%, official figures show. However, those declines were not as bad as expected and an improvement on the previous month. China is facing several post-pandemic challenges, including a property crisis and weak consumer spending. There has been a slump in global demand for Chinese-made goods in the wake of coronavirus and the ongoing trade dispute with the US. It is having a major impact on a key source of growth for the country's economy.

Arm, the UK-based chip designer, is hoping to clinch a market value of more than $50bn (£40bn) in its first sale of shares to the public since 2016. The company, which designs chips for devices including smartphones and game consoles, is seeking to raise nearly $5bn in the listing in the US. Expected to be the biggest offering of the year, it is seen as a test of market confidence. It follows heavy lobbying from the UK government to list in London. Chief executive Rene Haas has said the company will keep its material intellectual property, headquarters and operations in the UK


German supermarket Lidl has opened its largest warehouse in the world, in UK Bedfordshire. The regional distribution centre at Houghton Regis near Luton is expected to service 150 stores and create up to 1,500 jobs, the company said. The 1. 2 million sq ft (111,000 sq metres), £300m site, includes solar panels which Lidl said could run the warehouse at certain times of the year. All of its delivery fleet will be fuelled by biogas made from food waste. The retailer said the warehouse was so large, it could "fit three of Lidl's existing warehouses inside". It will be expected to move more than 9,400 pallets of goods each day, bound for its 150 stores. Its existing distribution centres service approximately 60-80 stores.
The maker of weight-loss drug Wegovy has become Europe's most valuable firm, dethroning the French luxury conglomerate LVMH. Shares rose after the Danish pharmaceutical giant, Novo Nordisk, launched the popular drug in the UK. At the close of trading on Monday, the firm had a stock market valuation of $428bn (£339bn). The drug is now available on the National Health Service in the UK and also on the private market. Wegovy is an obesity treatment that is taken once a week which tricks people into thinking that they are already full, so they end up eating less and losing weight. Famous personalities such as Elon Musk are among the reported users of the drug, which has captivated Hollywood and the public more widely since it was approved by regulators in the US in 2021.

Motorists faced a "shock" in August after fuel price rises that were among the biggest in more than two decades, the RAC has said. Petrol prices rose nearly 7p per litre, pushing up the cost of filling a tank by £3. 74. Diesel went up 8p, making full fill a tank cost £4 or  more, the motoring organisation said. But the RAC, representing drivers, said fuel retailers were not increasing the profit they were making. "August was a big shock to drivers as they had grown used to seeing far lower prices than last summer's record highs," said the RAC's fuel spokesman Simon Williams. But he said a recent investigation by the competition regulator appeared to be making retailers more cautious about raising prices further than necessary. "They have clearly been influenced by the Competition and Markets Authority's investigation as, all of a sudden, margins are once again closer to their longer-term averages," Mr Williams said.

Russia has said that BAE System's new business in Ukraine will be an "object of special attention" for its military. The UK defence giant has signed deals to ramp up weapons and equipment supplies to Kyiv, which include ultimately producing light artillery in the country. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the Russians saw the move "in a negative light". BAE has made much of the arms the UK and other nations have sent to Ukraine. Since Russia's invasion of the country in February 2022, Britain has become a major defence supplier to Ukraine. The BBC understands that BAE has not yet opened an office or factory in Ukraine but is in discussions about potentially doing so. The firm said the move will allow it to work directly with Ukraine to explore potential partners and produce some weapons there.

Octopus has announced it will buy Shell's household energy business in the UK and Germany. Octopus Energy said that it will take over providing energy for 1. 4 million homes as well as broadband services for 500,000 customers. Shell's customers are advised to "sit tight for now" as the deal is not expected to be completed until later this year. It is the latest expansion for Octopus which bought Bulb after its collapse. That deal - which rival energy providers challenged in the UK High Court over state support - gave Octopus an additional 1. 5 million customers. With Shell, its total customer base will grow to nearly 6. 5 million customers. Shell and Octopus both refused to disclose how much the business is being sold for. Octopus said: "There will be a smooth transition and no disruption to customer energy supply, all Shell energy and broadband customers will be contacted about the next steps following regulatory approval.

House prices are 5. 3% lower compared to August last year in the biggest annual decline since 2009, according to Nationwide. The building society said the drop represented a fall of £14,600 on a typical home in the UK since house prices peaked in August 2022. It said higher borrowing costs for buyers had led to a slowdown in activity in the housing market. Mortgage approvals are also about 20% below pre-Covid levels. Since December 2021, the Bank of England has lifted interest rates 14 times in row in a bid to clamp down on rising consumer prices in the UK. The bank's base rate now stands at 5. 25%. That, in turn, has led to lenders raising their mortgage rates, putting increased pressure on homebuyers. Nationwide's chief economist Robert Gardner said the rise in the cost of borrowing meant the fall in average house prices was "not surprising".

Swiss banking giant UBS has warned it plans to cut thousands of jobs despite making a record profit from buying struggling rival Credit Suisse. UBS made $29. 3bn (£22. 8bn) profit between April and June, compared to $2. 6bn last year, the biggest-ever quarterly return for a bank. The bumper figure was almost entirely due to buying Credit Suisse's assets cheaply after fears it would collapse. But the bank will shed 3,000 staff in the coming years in a bid to cut costs UBS rescued Credit Suisse for $3. 25bn in March, following heavy pressure from authorities who feared Switzerland's second largest bank would go under after clients began withdrawing money. Credit Suisse had faced a litany of problems and banking failures in the US dealt a final blow to confidence, forcing it to seek a buyer. UBS has announced it plans to fully absorb Credit Suisse's domestic bank operation, which made a profit last year, rather than spinning it off as a separate entity.

Burger King must face a lawsuit that alleges it makes its Whopper burger appear larger on its menus than it is in reality, a US judge has ruled. The lawsuit accuses the fast food giant of misleading customers by showing the burger with a meatier patty and ingredients that "overflow over the bun". "The plaintiffs' claims are false," Burger King told the BBC. Rivals McDonald's and Wendy's are facing a similar lawsuit in the US. The class action lawsuit against Burger King alleged that the Whopper was made to look 35% larger, with more than double the amount of meat compared to what was actually served to customers.

The number of appointments and treatments postponed by strike action in the NHS in England is nearing  1m. The 48-hour walkout by consultants in England last week saw more than 45,000 appointments being cancelled. It brings the total number of postponed hospital appointments since industrial action began in the NHS in December to 885,000. Once mental health and community bookings are included, it tops 944,000. The true total is likely to be even higher, as services have stopped scheduling appointments on strike days and these will not be included in the figures released by NHS England. Alongside consultants, junior doctors, nurses, physios, ambulance workers and radiographers have also walked out at various stages. NHS national medical director Professor Sir Stephen Powis said: "Industrial action continues to have a huge impact on the NHS, and on the lives of patients and their families.
Workers at two large liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants in Australia are set to go on strike from 7 September, in a move that could drive up global prices. It follows weeks of negotiations with unions over pay and working conditions. Chevron, the US energy giant which operates the sites, said it would "continue to take steps to maintain safe and reliable operations in the event of disruption at our facilities". Fears of strikes recently pushed up wholesale gas prices in Europe. The Wheatstone and Gorgon sites produce more than 5% of the world's LNG and about 500 workers are currently employed at the two plants in Western Australia.

Shares in embattled Chinese property developer Evergrande have fallen almost 80% in their first day of trading in Hong Kong for a year and a half. The shares have lost more than 99% of their value in the past three years as Beijing cracked down on property firms. Evergrande is at the centre of a real estate market crisis threatening the world's second largest economy. On Sunday, the firm posted a 33bn yuan ($4. 5bn; £3. 6bn) loss for the first six months of the year. However, that was an improvement on the 66. 4bn yuan loss it reported for the same period a year earlier. The company's directors "have taken a number of measures to improve the liquidity position and financial position of the group," Evergrande said in a filing to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.

The US Department of Justice (DOJ) has said it is suing Elon Musk's SpaceX, alleging the rocket firm discriminates against refugees and asylum seekers in its hiring practices. The DoJ says SpaceX falsely claimed that it was not allowed to hire non-US citizens. The investigation into SpaceX by the DoJ was prompted after allegations of discrimination from a foreign worker. The BBC has contacted SpaceX for comment. The DoJ alleged that SpaceX "routinely discouraged asylees and refugees from applying and refused to hire or consider them, because of their citizenship status" from September 2018 to May 2022. An asylee is a person who has been granted asylum. They are authorised to work in the US, may apply for a social security card, may request permission to travel overseas, and can apply to bring family members to the country.

Donald Trump has posted on X, formerly Twitter, after he surrendered on charges of plotting to overturn Georgia's 2020 election results. His account was "'permanently" suspended after the Capitol riot in January 2021 but was reactivated after Elon Musk bought Twitter last year. However the former president had not posted on his account until now. Mr Trump's first post was of his mugshot, with the words "Never Surrender" and a campaign website link. Mr Musk later reposted it with the comment "Next-Level". In the wake of the 6 January 2021 riot in Washington DC, Twitter said in a statement: "We have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence". Since then Mr Trump has been posting on Truth Social, his own Twitter-like social media platform. However, it is not widely used.

The owner of OnlyFans, the online platform used by sex workers, musicians, celebrities and more, has been paid $338m (£268. 5m) in dividends. Its parent company, Fenix International, says annual profits jumped to over half a billion dollars. The platform says it now hosts more than three million creators, serving almost 240 million users, or "Fans". UK-based Fenix's sole shareholder, Leonid Radvinsky, has a personal fortune estimated at more than $2bn. In accounts filed at the UK corporate registry Companies House, the firm said more than $5. 5bn was spent on the OnlyFans platform in the year to the end of November 2022. That was up from $4. 8bn in 2021. The London-registered firm said pre-tax profits for the period reached $525m, up from $432m the previous year. The number of creators on OnlyFans jumped by 47% to almost 3. 2 million, while the number of users rose by 27% to close to 239 million.

Sandwich chain Subway is set to be bought by a private equity firm Dunkin' investor, ending six decades of family ownership. The company announced it had agreed a deal with US-based firm Roark Capital, which has brands Baskin-Robbins and Dunkin' on its books. The chain did not reveal the terms of the sale, but Reuters reported it has been valued at more than $9bn (£7. 1bn). Subway has grown rapidly in recent years but has faced soaring costs and increased competition. It hailed its takeover as a "major milestone" and said it reflected "substantial value of our brand". The sale will make Roark Capital one of the largest restaurant operators in the world. It already controls US restaurant giant Inspire Brands, which owns chains including Jimmy John's, Arby's, Baskin-Robbins and Buffalo Wild Wings.
Technology giant Nvidia says its sales have hit a record after more than doubling as demand for its artificial intelligence (AI) chips soars. The company says revenue jumped to above $13. 5bn (£10. 6bn) for the three months to the end of June. Nvidia also expects sales to soar further in the current quarter and plans to buy back $25bn of its stock. The firm's shares rose by more than 6. 5% in extended trading in New York, adding to their huge gains this year. Nvidia also said it expects revenue of around $16bn for the three months to the end of September. That is much higher than Wall Street expectations and would equate to a rise of around 170%, compared to the same time last year.

Some of Scotland's biggest salmon farms have reported significant and continuing "biological"' problems. That often refers to sea lice or disease and there has also been a challenge from exceptionally high sea temperatures, bringing more jellyfish. Leroy, the Norwegian firm that owns half of Scottish Sea Farms, said April to June was "extremely challenging" . It reported problems on its fish farms have affected average harvest size. Salmon farmers often have to harvest fish before they have grown to full size if there is an infestation of lice, bringing higher costs and lower prices.

Monarch Airlines is preparing to relaunch six years after collapsing. The company, which operated out of London Luton Airport, confirmed its new headquarters would be in the Bedfordshire town. The airline collapsed in 2017, with more than 1,800 workers made redundant and the flights and holidays for about 860,000 people being cancelled. Monarch has announced that the airline and the holiday company have been transferred to new ownership.

UPS has avoided its first US strike in more than 25 years as the union representing its workers said a new five-year contract has been approved. The two sides have been negotiating for months over demands including higher pay and better working conditions. In July, UPS said it had agreed a deal with the Teamsters Union to raise the average annual salary of full-time drivers to about $170,000 (£133,440). This included healthcare and other benefits and is up from about $145,000. The deal also gives workers one more day of paid holiday, ends forced overtime and adds air conditioning to new models of the company's trucks from next year. "This is the template for how workers should be paid and protected nationwide, and non-union companies like Amazon better pay attention," the general president of Teamsters Sean M O'Brien said.
Housing is more affordable than a year ago, according to the UK's biggest mortgage lender, but high mortgage rates mean it is still a stretch. The Halifax, part of Lloyds Banking Group, said that a typical home in the UK cost 6. 7 times average annual earnings of a full-time worker. This is down from 7. 3 times a year ago, which was a record level. The lender said that house prices had fallen in the last year, while earnings had risen. However, a typical home is still less affordable than it was near the start of the pandemic, and mortgages are taking up a bigger chunk of incomes. The building society said that mortgage costs typically accounted for 35% of a homeowner's income, up from 30% in a year and not far short of the level seen at the start of the financial crisis in 2007. "The sharp rise seen in interest rates over the last year has meant the sums now look very different for both homebuyers and those looking to remortgage," said Kim Kinnaird, mortgages director at the Halifax.

Pubs are calling for more flexible licensing laws during national events, such as Sunday's Women's World Cup final. The British Beer and Pub Association (BBPA) said the current rules were "far too prescriptive" when it came to one-off events of national interest. As a result, many pubs had to wait until the second half of the game to be able to serve alcohol. The government said it keeps licencing laws "under review". Ahead of Sunday's match, which saw England's Lionesses defeated by Spain, pubs had called for rules to be relaxed to allow venues to serve drinks from 10:00 BST, before the game began. The laws meant many were unable to serve alcoholic drinks until 11:00, with some being restricted until midday, according to the BBPA, which is an industry body.
Wilko shoppers are being urged to avoid being scammed by a raft of fake websites that have been set up after the retailer fell into administration. Several fake sites are supposedly offering hefty discounts on Wilko goods. However, Wilko has stopped selling goods online, and is also no longer offering home delivery or click and collect services. One fake site had a sofa for £25 and an adult's electric bike also for £25. Wilko announced earlier this month that it was going into administration, putting 12,500 jobs and its 400 stores at risk. PwC was appointed as the company's administrator, tasked with trying to find a buyer for the business. However, it is now trying to close at least 10 fake websites. "We have been made aware of a number of fake Wilko websites which are offering Wilko products at heavily discounted prices," a PwC spokesperson said.

Bosses at Britain's biggest companies saw their pay rise by almost 16% on average last year as most workers' wages were squeezed by rising prices. The High Pay Centre said the median pay of a FTSE 100 chief executive was £3. 91m in 2022, up from £3. 38m in 2021. It added that the average earnings of a FTSE 100 boss was 118 times more than a typical UK worker on £33,000 a year. Critics called the earnings extreme, but some of the firms argued they were in line with competitors. According to the High Pay Centre - a think tank which tracks executives' pay - the highest paid boss last year was Sir Pascal Soriot, the boss of the drugs giant AstraZeneca, with £15. 3m. The British-Swedish company became a household name when it teamed up with Oxford University scientists to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. Charles Woodburn of security and aerospace firm BAE Systems was the second highest earner with £10. 7m, while Emma Walmsley, boss of GlaxoSmithKline, was the highest female earner with £8. 45m.

Former Bank of England governor Mark Carney has been named chairman of a new board of directors at US financial information and media firm Bloomberg. Bloomberg's head of product Vlad Kliatchko was also appointed as chief executive officer in the major shakeup of the company's management. The BBC understands the firm's founder, 81-year-old Michael Bloomberg, made the announcement in an email to staff. Mr Carney has previously worked with Mr Bloomberg on climate-related projects. Mr Kliatchko's promotion comes as speculation has been growing about succession plans at the company. The reshuffle will see more new board members being appointed "in short order", while existing members will be given honorary positions. Mr Bloomberg's email - which was first reported by The Information website - also made it clear that he would stay at the firm and was "not going anywhere".

British microchip designing giant Arm has announced it has filed paperwork to sell its shares in the US. The Cambridge-based company, which designs chips for devices from smartphones to game consoles, plans to list on New York's Nasdaq in September. Arm did not reveal the number of shares for sale or the price, but its proposed initial public offering (IPO) could be the biggest listing since late 2021. In March, in a blow to the UK, the firm opted against listing shares in London. On Monday, Arm announced that it had now publicly filed a registration statement relating to a proposed IPO. It said the number of shares to be offered and the price range for them were yet to be determined. But the company is reportedly looking for a valuation of between $60bn (£47bn) to $70bn. Arm was bought in 2016 by Japanese conglomerate Softbank in a deal worth £23. 4bn. Prior to the takeover, it was listed in both London and New York for 18 years.

More than 180 people have lost their jobs after a construction and plant hire business went into administration. Allma Construction based in Barrhead, East Renfrewshire, was the supplier of groundwork services to housebuilders. Administrators said it had suffered from a "sharp downturn" in in the housebuilding sector and soaring labour and material costs. In total 181 people were made redundant, with seven retained to assist the joint administrators. Founded in 1991, Allma Construction and Centre Plant had a turnover of £25m.

Retail sales volumes fell by 1. 2% in July after the wet weather hit summer clothing sales and the cost of living weighed on food shoppers. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said it was a particularly bad month for supermarkets. "The summer washout combined with the increased cost of living meant sluggish sales for both clothing and food," it said. Department stores also reported falling demand for household goods. Illustrating how much prices have risen, the ONS said that compared to February 2020 - the last full month before Covid struck - total retail sales were 16. 4% higher by value but 1. 8% lower in the volume of goods people bought. Earlier this week, new figures showed that inflation, which measures the rate at which prices are rising, slowed again to 6. 8%. However, food prices are still increasing at a high rate.

The rising cost of renting has again hit its highest level since comparable records began in 2016, with strong demand from tenants. With fewer properties available to rent in many areas, the mismatch between supply and demand has pushed up costs for many people. Prices paid by UK renters rose by 5. 3% on average in the year to July, the Office for National Statistics said. The figures come as rising prices continues to squeeze household budgets. The inflation rate, which measures how the cost of living changes over time, fell to 6. 8% in the year to July. Although this was down from 7. 9% in June, it is still far above the Bank of England's target of 2%. High demand from tenants at the same time as landlords reducing the number of available properties is one of the key reasons behind the rent increase. Competition among renters is so intense that there are 20 requests to view each available property, according to recent figures commissioned by the BBC from property portal Rightmove, up from six in pre-pandemic 2019.
Wet weather and high inflation hit retail sales across Scotland in July, new figures show. The Scottish Retail Consortium (SRC) and KPMG data suggests sales in July increased by 4. 6% compared with the same month last year (4. 4%). However, this is below the three-month average increase of 9. 1% and the 12-month average growth of 8. 5%. Sales of summer food and clothing ranges were badly hit by heavy rain throughout July. The SRC has warned the "dual burden" of high inflation and interest rates means July may not be the last month of disappointing sales in the near future. The trade body also said a high portion of sales growth may be a reflection of rising prices, rather than increased volumes.

Challenger bank Monzo has topped in ranking an official league table which charts whether customers would recommend their bank to family and friends. Its satisfaction rating has dropped by one percentage point compared to six months ago, but its score of 80% in Britain was higher than all its rivals. It is top on its own, having shared first place with Starling Bank last time, a survey of 16,000 people found. Starling is second, with First Direct in third. Lyndsey Edgar, vice president of operations at Monzo, which has eight million customers, said: "These results are testament to the brilliant people we have at Monzo, who ensure customers are at the heart of everything we do. " Joint last were Virgin Money and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) - both of which were recommended by 48% of their customers who were surveyed. A spokesperson for Virgin Money said it was "determined to give customers the best products", while RBS admitted it could "do more to improve the experience for customers in certain aspects of our service".

A call has been made for Shell to rethink plans to demolish its landmark former headquarters in Aberdeen. The energy giant had been based at the Tullos premises since 1973. The company revealed in 2021 it was relocating to the city centre, and staff started moving last year. Shell believes the building's age makes it unlikely someone would step in. However, an open letter has called for other options to be considered. Matthew Clubb, who runs an architectural practice based in Aberdeen, wrote the letter which has now been signed by more than 40 people from various backgrounds including engineers and climate activists. "In the environmental impact assessment from Shell, it states that the council and Shell have looked at the practicalities of reuse and consider it not viable," he told BBC Scotland. "But there's no transparency on that process. So we are asking for that process on this occasion to be made publicly available and for the public to be perhaps consulted on that and for other ideas to come forward.

Some mortgage borrowers who only pay the interest on their loan are being "overly optimistic" about their ability to clear their final debt, data shows. Interest-only deals require borrowers to have a plan to pay off the loan - known as the capital - at the end of the mortgage term. But research by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) suggests some people do not realise they face a shortfall. The warning comes as rising costs mean interest-only deals may become popular. They have become an option for some people who think they will struggle to make higher monthly repayments on more widely-used repayment mortgages, in which borrowers pay off both the interest and the capital. David Geale, director of retail banking at the FCA, said that a final plan to pay off the capital was "a challenge" for some interest-only borrowers.

Russia has hiked interest rates to 12% after the rouble fell to its lowest value in 16 months. The currency fell past 100 per dollar on Monday, prompting Russia's central bank to hold an emergency meeting. The Bank of Russia said it decided to raise interest rates from 8. 5% to curb inflation, which hit 4. 4% in August. Pressure has been mounting on the Russian economy due to imports rising faster than exports and military spending growing for the Ukraine war. "Steady growth in domestic demand surpassing the capacity to expand output amplifies the underlying inflationary pressure and has impact on the rouble's exchange rate dynamics through elevated demand for imports," the Bank of Russia said in a statement. The bank said "inflationary pressure" was building, but that its target was to bring inflation, which is the rate prices rise at, down to 4% by 2024.
The Russian rouble has fallen to its lowest value in 16 months, falling past 100 per US dollar. The decline comes as pressure grows on the Russian economy, with imports rising faster than exports and military spending growing for the Ukraine war. Russia has been targeted with sanctions by Western countries following its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. The rouble plummeted after war first broke out, but was bolstered by capital controls and oil and gas exports. It has fluctuated in value since the war, but has lost about a quarter of its value overall against the dollar since Ukraine was invaded. Earlier on Monday, the rouble was 101. 04 per US dollar. The more roubles per dollar means the currency is weakening, as it will take more of it to buy one US dollar, which is typically seen as the most powerful currency in the world.
The company that owns Versace is being bought by the luxury goods group Tapestry in a deal worth $8. 5bn (£6. 7bn). Capri Holdings, which also owns Michael Kors and Jimmy Choo, is being taken over by Tapestry whose own brands include high-end names such as Coach. Tapestry's boss Joanne Crevoiserat said the deal "creates a new powerful global luxury house". Analysts said it would build a rival to compete with European fashion giants. "It's creating a major American fashion conglomerate especially in the premium fashion space," said Louise Deglise-Favre, apparel analyst at the analytics company GlobalData, told the BBC. "It's not as big as the likes of European giants such as LVMH and Kering, but even so it's definitely giving its brands more of a leg to stand on," she added. LVMH and Kering are both France-based luxury brand giants who each control some of the biggest names in luxury fashion, leather goods and jewellery. Kering owns the likes of Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Balenciaga.
Plans to expand London Luton Airport's capacity from 18 to 32 million passengers a year will be heard by the Planning Inspectorate. Luton Rising, the Luton Council company that owns the airport, said it could generate £1. 5bn per year and create thousands of new jobs. Pete White, from Stop Luton Airport Expansion, said: "It's the worst thing that could ever happen for east Luton. " Luton Rising said capacity needed to grow to keep customers and airlines. The expansion plans include new terminal capacity, an extension to the current airfield and new airside and landside facilities.
Multi-billionaire Elon Musk is putting Twitter building signs and other items from the company up for auction just weeks after the firm's rebranding as X. Among the 584 lots on offer are coffee tables, outsized bird cages, and oil paintings of images that went viral. Also listed are tens of desks and chairs, a DJ booth, and enough musical instruments to equip a band. Since buying the social media platform last year, Mr Musk has cut thousands of jobs in an effort to lower costs. The auction has been called "Twitter Rebranding: Online Auction Featuring Memorabilia, Art, Office Assets & More! " One of the Twitter signs on offer is still fixed to the company's headquarters on 10th Street in San Francisco. "Bird is still mounted on side of the building. Buyer is responsible for hiring an SF Licensed Company with appropriate Permits," the listing reads.

500  jobs are at risk in Lurgan as a refrigerated transport company has been earmarked for closure. Morgan McLernon is a subsidiary of English-based Culina Group. Culina Group issued a statement confirming a proposal to shutter the business. A spokesperson said: "A period of meaningful consultation has now been entered into with those colleagues affected. " Morgan McLernon's website stated the company has more than 140 vehicles and has been in operation for over 50 years. Its clients include Marks and Spencer, Tesco, Asda and Aldi. In 2017, Culina Group bought a majority share in Morgan McLernon, making the Lurgan business the largest haulage operation in both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.

Italy has watered down plans to hit its banks with a windfall tax, leading to a rebound in the share prices of the country's lenders. On Monday night, the government passed a one-off 40% tax on the profits banks earn from higher interest rates, in a shock move that saw shares plummet. It said proceeds would be used to help mortgage holders and to cut taxes. But late on Tuesday evening, the finance ministry said the tax would be capped at 0. 1% of assets. The tax will apply to the income that comes from the gap between the banks' lending and deposit rates. Shares in Italian lenders such as Intesa Sanpaolo, Banco BPM and UniCredit, which tumbled on Tuesday, recovered some ground on Wednesday after the initial plan was diluted. A windfall tax is a levy imposed by a government on companies that have benefited from external conditions or events, such as a rise in the oil price or higher interest rates, leading to much bigger than expected profits.

Shares in WeWork, the once globally-hyped office space-sharing company, have plunged after it raised "substantial doubt" about its future. The company's shares fell by close to 24% in extended trading in New York. The firm said that it needed to raise additional capital to keep it afloat over the next 12 months. WeWork, which is backed by Japanese tech giant Softbank, was hit hard by the pandemic as social distancing rules drove people to work from home. However, it has yet to turn a profit, even after workers returned to offices as coronavirus restrictions eased. On Tuesday, WeWork said in a statement that it faced challenges including softer demand and a "difficult" operating environment. "Substantial doubt exists about the company's ability to continue as a going concern," the firm said.

Vegan food firm Beyond Meat has seen its sales plunge by almost a third as the rising cost of living squeezes shoppers. The plant-based meat substitute maker says net revenues fell by 30. 5% for the three months to the end of June, compared to a year earlier. Shares of the company fell by almost 12% in extended trading in New York. Last year, it announced plans to cut almost a fifth of its workforce to save around $39m (£30. 6m) of costs. On Monday, the company said it had been affected by "softer demand in the plant-based meat category, high inflation, rising interest rates, and ongoing concerns about the likelihood of a recession". It added that it now expected annual revenue of between $360m to $380m, down from earlier estimates of as much as $415m. Demand has also been hit by an increased scrutiny of the health benefits of vegan products, Beyond Meat's chief executive Ethan Brown said.
HSBC's head of public affairs has apologised after accusing the British government of being "weak" for complying with US demands to cut back business dealings with China. A spokesperson for the bank said Sir Sherard Cowper-Coles made the comments "at a private roundtable discussion and shared his personal views. " US-China ties have become increasingly tense in recent years. The UK-based firm makes much of its profit in Asia, including China. "I was speaking at a private event under Chatham House Rules and my personal comments do not reflect the views of HSBC or the China British Business Council. I apologise for any offence caused," Sir Sherard, who is also chairman of the China-Britain Business Council lobby group said in a statement provided to the BBC by HSBC. Under the Chatham House Rule, attendees of meetings are free to use information gained from discussions, but are not allowed to reveal who made any comments.

Around 24,000 staff at British Airways will get a pay rise worth more than 13% over 18 months from September, the Unite union has said. Workers will also get a one-off payment of £1,000, but pilots and management are excluded from the deal, it said. The deal, after months of negotiations, eases the threat of disruption as demand for air travel soars. Workers are pushing for higher pay in a number of sectors as inflation continues to be high. The pace of general price rises in the UK has been persistently high. Inflation, while it has declined a little, is still running at 7. 9%, well above the Bank of England's target of 2%. Unite's pay negotiations were focused on easing the effects of inflation on workers. The union said the deal also reversed pay cuts from 2020.
China says it will drop its tariffs on Australian barley imports that had been in place for three years and affected billions of dollars of trade. Australia's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese welcomed the move. Canberra also said it will suspend its case at the World Trade Organization (WTO) over Beijing's duties on barley. In another sign of the thawing relationship between the two nations, Australia this week invited China's new foreign minister to visit the country. China's Ministry of Commerce said the tariffs will be dropped starting on Saturday. "In view of the changes in China's barley market, it is no longer necessary to continue to impose anti-dumping duties and countervailing duties on imported barley from Australia," China's commerce ministry said. Before the tariffs were imposed the Australian government had estimated that barley exports to China averaged around A$1. 2 billion ($790m; £620m) a year. In 2020, Beijing imposed tariffs on key Australian exports such as barley, beef and wine, as well as unofficial restrictions on lobster and meat exports from certain abattoirs.

South Korea's Hyundai Motor and Kia are recalling almost 91,000 plus vehicles in the US because of a fire risk. The recall affects several models and stems from an issue with an electrical component in a transmission oil pump, which could overheat. The companies advised owners of the vehicles to park outside and away from buildings until they are inspected. This is the latest in a series of fire-related recalls of Hyundai and Kia vehicles in recent years. In relation to the latest recall, Kia said there had been six reports of "thermal incidents" but no crashes or injuries. Hyundai said it had four similar reports and also recorded no crashes, injuries or deaths due to the issue. As well as the fire risk, heat damage could trigger a short circuit affecting other vehicle controllers, Hyundai said. "Owners are advised to park outside and away from structures until the recall repair is complete," the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said.
Interest rates will not fall until there is "solid evidence" that rapid price rises are slowing, the boss of the Bank of England has told the BBC. Andrew Bailey said once both prices and pay are stable, then rates would drop. His comments came after the Bank raised interest rates to a 15-year high of 5. 25% from 5% on Thursday - the 14th increase of rates in a row. The move will mean higher mortgage and loan payments for some, but should also mean higher savings rates. The Bank said for the first time that interest rates would stay higher for longer in an effort to battle soaring price rises. Mr Bailey said he would need more evidence that inflation was falling before cutting rates.

Adidas generated millions from its first sales of Yeezy trainers after ending the collaboration with rapper and fashion designer Kanye West. The sportswear giant reported sales of €400m (£344m) from the shoes between April and June this year. Adidas cut ties with West, known as Ye, last November after he made a series of antisemitic comments on social media. It has pledged to donate some of the proceeds of the sales to charities who work on combating hate. The demand for Yeezy shoes has not faded though, with the trainers remaining wildly popular in the resale market. Adidas boss Bjorn Gulden said the firm will "continue to carefully sell off more of the existing Yeezy inventory" in its latest financial update. He argued the sale was "much better than destroying and writing off the inventory", but acknowledged that it boosted the company's "general financial strength".
Chinese technology shares fell after the country's cyberspace regulator recommended limiting smartphone usage of children under 18. Shares of firms like Alibaba and video-sharing site Bilibili fell on Wednesday and saw more losses early on Thursday. The proposed law would see children being only allowed to use their phones for a maximum of two hours a day. It comes four years after children in the world's second-largest economy were subject to gaming restrictions. The rules proposed by the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), will also see children banned from accessing the internet on mobile devices from 22:00 to 06:00 local time. The CAC's proposal requires industry players including mobile phone device makers, apps and app stores to develop a function called "minor mode" to set usage limits - which vary by age. While children between the ages of 16 to 18 will be allowed two hours of screen time a day, those under the age of eight will only be allotted 40 minutes.
A market trader has had to put his house up for sale after his family business is rlocated  following the renovation of a historic market. West Northamptonshire Council is carrying out an £8. 5m renovation of Northampton market and has temporarily relocated traders to Commercial Street car park. Traders said they have lost regular customers and a cafe owner said he had lost 80% of his customers. WNC said it was working with traders. Huy Vo runs a fruit and vegetable stall with his brother and the company has gone from five members of staff to just one full time and one part time worker. Mr Vo said his brother has put his house up for sale due to the tough trading conditions. He said: "We might have to pack up the job.

Medical clinics are using fake Google reviews to boost their profiles online, a BBC investigation has found. Consumer groups say fake reviews are a "significant and persistent problem" and have called on internet firms to do more to remove them and fine companies. Which? has warned it could be a serious issue if someone chooses a treatment clinic based on reading a fake review. The government said it was toughening the law to protect consumers, while Google said it removed fake reviews. Fake reviews can be bought online and have been known to appear on Amazon, Trustpilot and the App Store. One of the companies the BBC's investigation examined was the Ipswich Spine Clinic run by Dr Amit Patel.

Online marketplace Etsy is facing growing calls for sellers to boycott the site and strike  for withholding their money. A reserve system meant some sellers had 75% of their takings frozen for 45 days, leaving them struggling to trade. Furniture seller Stephen James is one of the hundreds who have joined social media groups calling for other sellers to come off the platform in protest. It is not clear how many would join in any boycott. Etsy said it would continue to review its reserve system. It added that it took seller feedback seriously and that payment reserves were used to "keep the marketplace safe" and cover any potential refunds. Small Business Commissioner Liz Barclay told the BBC her team were receiving a rising number of complaints about Etsy. They had also noticed a growing number of people joining social media groups to discuss a strike or boycott.

UK house prices dropped at their fastest annual rate for 14 years in July, according to Nationwide. The building society said prices had dropped by 3. 8% - the biggest yearly decline since July 2009. Nationwide said mortgage interest rates remained high, making affordability a challenge for house-buyers. Mortgage costs hit the highest level for 15 years in July as lenders faced uncertainty over the interest rate set by the Bank of England. The average price of a home in the UK is £260,828, said Nationwide which is about £13,000 below a peak in August last year. Many first-time buyers should welcome a drop in house prices, which have climbed in recent years, including during the Covid pandemic. But Nationwide said that despite July's fall, higher mortgage rates meant housing affordability remained stretched.

In a surprise move, health and beauty retail group THG has bought business newspaper City AM. THG, which owns brands including Cult Beauty and LookFantastic, has never owned a newspaper but has an online publishing arm with two magazines. The free London-based newspaper was put up for sale earlier in July after it was impacted significantly by the pandemic and a reduction in commuters. City AM co-founder Lawson Muncaster said the deal was "brilliant news. " Mr Muncaster - who owns a quarter of the business - said the deal would help it develop its online presence, which it hadn't been able to do before due to funding issues. He told the BBC THG's previous experience in online publishing makes him optimistic about the newspaper's future. "We can draw on THG's expertise and given they are a global business this is a chance to get our content out on an international level. "
Nigel Farage has called for the whole NatWest board to follow boss Dame Alison Rose in quitting over his bank row account closure escalated. The ex-UKIP leader told BBC Breakfast it was "right" that Dame Alison quit but said the board "should all go". Dame Alison quit abruptly early on Wednesday after admitting she had made a mistake in speaking to the BBC about Mr Farage's relationship with the bank. It came after the chancellor expressed significant concerns over her conduct. Natwest chair Sir Howard Davies said just hours before Dame Alison resigned that it was in the interest of shareholders and customers that she stayed on as chief executive despite admitting she had made a "serious error of judgement". The BBC has been told Sir Howard intends to remain on until the middle of next year when he is expected to retire.
UK energy watchdog Ofgem has announced new rules to make gas and electricity energy suppliers more financially secure. The move comes after 30 firms collapsed in less than a year meaning millions of customers were switched to new, often more expensive suppliers. The rules set a financial buffer energy firms must hold to make them better able to withstand market disruption. Ofgem will also tell firms there should be temporary repayment holidays when customers cannot pay. Under the new rules, customers in vulnerable situations must be prioritised and energy supplier's helplines must stay open for longer and be easier to contact.
NatWest boss Dame Alison Rose has quits hours after admitting she had made a mistake in speaking about Nigel Farage's relationship with the bank row. She had been heavily criticised for being the source of an inaccurate BBC report about Mr Farage's account at Coutts, which is part of NatWest Group. The announcement came just hours after NatWest said it had full confidence in her in continuing to lead the bank. Dame Alison had admitted a "serious error of judgment". In a statement released early on Wednesday morning, NatWest Group chairman Sir Howard Davies said: "The board and Alison Rose have agreed, by mutual consent, that she will step down as chief executive of the NatWest Group.
The consultation into the plan to close hundreds of rail ticket offices in England has been extended until 1 September. Organisers of the consultation said some train companies did not provide accessible formats, preventing people from being able to respond to plans. More than 170,000 responses have been received, according to watchdogs Transport Focus and London TravelWatch. The plan sparked concern from rail unions over job cuts and disability groups over accessibility issues. The 21-day period for passengers to share their views was due to end on Wednesday, but the Rail Delivery Group say it has listened to feedback and has extended the consultation period by almost six weeks "to give as many people as possible a chance to take part".

The chief executive of NatWest, Dame Alison Rose, is facing pressure from the government to resign. Downing Street and Chancellor Jeremy Hunt have "significant concerns" over her conduct, BBC News has been told. She has apologised for discussing the closure of Nigel Farage's account at NatWest's private banking arm Coutts with a BBC journalist, saying it was a "serious error of judgement". NatWest earlier said it still had full confidence in Dame Alison at the helm. Dame Alison's apology on Tuesday afternoon comes after the BBC apologised for its inaccurate report earlier this month which said Mr Farage's account was being closed because he no longer met the wealth threshold for Coutts, citing a source familiar with the matter. Mr Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party and Brexiteer, first reported in early July that his account had been closed.
Magnum and Marmite-maker Unilever has reported profits soared over the first six months of this year, based almost entirely on raising its prices. The consumer goods giant said that across the business, pre-tax profit rose 21% to €3. 9bn (£3. 34bn) but the number of goods that it sold fell. Supermarkets, such as Tesco, have been critical of suppliers lifting their prices amid high inflation. Unilever's boss said it had not passed on higher costs to its customers. Chief executive Hein Schumacher added that he believes that inflation - the rate at which prices rise - had peaked. "We do see inflation moderating by the end of the year and that will lead to more moderated pricing our end. 
Chinese-owned video streaming app TikTok says it will offer text-only posts as competition between social media giants heats up. The platform says the new feature gives users "another way to express themselves". Earlier this month, TikTok launched a new music streaming service to rival platforms like Spotify and Apple Music. And on Monday, Elon Musk's Twitter ditched its famous blue bird logo and switched to a black and white X. TikTok users will now be offered three options on the app - whether to post photos, videos or text. They will also be able to customise posts by adding sound, location or Duets, which are video reactions to posts by other TikTok users. "These features make it so your text posts are just as dynamic and interactive as any video or photo post," TikTok said.

Firms offering "quickie" divorces and will writing are to be investigated by the UK's competition watchdog. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said it would examine claims made by online divorce services, which have become more popular since lockdown. Some vulnerable customers had also contacted it after being pressured into signing up for will-writing services. The CMA said there were now many alternatives to law firms, especially where the adviser is not a solicitor. It said these alternatives to conventional law firms can be more convenient and cheaper, but "where they are unregulated, it becomes all the more important that normal consumer protection laws are complied with and, if necessary, enforced".

Twitter has changed its brand and logo from its famous blue bird to "X". The new white X on a black background has replaced the blue bird on the desktop version of the social network, although is yet to appear on the mobile app. "Tweets" will also be replaced, according to Twitter's owner Elon Musk, and posts will be called "x's". The billionaire changed his profile picture to the new logo and added "X. com" to his Twitter bio. Mr Musk wants to create a "super app" called X - his vision for a new kind of social media platform that he has been talking about creating for months. On Sunday, the billionaire said he was looking to change Twitter's logo, tweeting: "And soon we shall bid adieu to the Twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds. " He then shared a picture of the new X branding projected onto the side of Twitter headquarters in San Francisco.
Unilever has said it will let Russian employees be conscripted to be sent to Ukraine if they are called up. The consumer goods giant, which has about 3,000 employees in Russia, has policies that cover the well-being and safety of its workers. However, in a letter to campaign group B4Ukraine, it said it would comply with Russian conscription law. Unilever has been under pressure to pull out of Russia, but says the situation is "not straightforward". In a letter to B4Ukraine, which campaigns for companies to cease operating in Russia to hurt its economy, Unilever said it "absolutely condemns the war in Ukraine as a brutal, senseless act by the Russian state". It also said it had responsibility for its 3,000 workers, adding that it had "global principles including the safety and well-being of our employees". Nevertheless, the British firm, which makes products including Marmite and Cornetto ice creams, said it was "aware of the law requiring any company operating in Russia to permit the conscription of employees should they be called".
The Treasury has called a meeting with bank bosses over account closures, following the row between Nigel Farage and NatWest. Minister Andrew Griffith said there was "significant concern" over claims accounts are shut due to people's political views. NatWest boss Dame Alison Rose has apologised to Mr Farage, who has called for her to be questioned by MPs. He says his account at Coutts, owned by NatWest, was shut because of his views. The government was already looking into concerns that some people had their accounts closed or suspended due to their publicly stated views, but the row involving the former Ukip leader has focused public attention on the allegations. In a letter to banks seen by the BBC, City Minister Andrew Griffith said the recent allegations of "client de-banking" had "raised significant concern in both Houses of Parliament".
Chipmaking giant Taiwan Semiconductor (TSMC) has delayed the start of production at its factory in the US state of Arizona, in a setback to President Biden's technology ambitions. The firm says chip manufacturing will no longer start next year, due to a shortage of skilled workers. The White House has laid out plans to bring more chip production to the US. It comes as an ongoing trade row centred on the technology intensifies between Washington and Beijing. TSMC's shares closed more than 3% lower in Taiwan on Friday. On Thursday, TSMC Chairman Mark Liu said production of advanced microprocessors at its Arizona factory in the south west of the US would now begin in 2025. During an earnings presentation, Mr Liu said the plant, which has been under construction since April 2021, faced a shortage of workers with the "specialised expertise required for equipment installation in a semiconductor-grade facility. "

The living wage on the Isle of Man has risen to £12. 01, the latest report on the issue has confirmed. The new voluntary hourly rate, which was calculated by Statistics Isle of Man, represents a 96p increase on the figure calculated in 2022. Based on the cost of living, the report recommends the minimum salary needed for residents to afford basics, such as food, clothing and housing costs. The UK figure is currently £10. 90 and is set to be updated in September. The report found that a single man needs to earn a weekly wage of £404. 23 to live comfortably, with a single woman requiring £413. 91 per week. The weekly figure, which also considers tax, national insurance and benefits, sits at £1,395. 83 for a couple with four children. In 2022, an error in how the Isle of Man Living Wage was historically calculated meant the figure had been overestimated since 2017. Meanwhile in May, the Isle of Man's Annual Earnings Survey revealed there had been a 6. 8% rise in the number of people earning less than the living wage on the island in 2022.

Lotus Cars is set to cut up to 200 jobs from its workforce after the company posted heavy losses. The Norfolk-based firm's recent accounts show it made a loss before tax of £145. 1m in 2022, versus a deficit of £86. 6m in the previous year. Lotus said it would cut back its workforce to "ensure that the right organisational structure is in place". The company said the move "includes a restructure of its workforce, which may involve the loss of up to 200 jobs". It added: "Wherever possible, we will look to support the redeployment of staff and plan to look for ways to retain specific skills and knowledge within the business, despite the proposed cuts. "We believe this is vital to ensuring the organisation is leaner and more competitive long-term. " It has not yet specified where the job cuts will take place.

A burst of people signed up for Netflix this spring, after the streaming giant cracked down on password sharing. The company ended June with more than 238 million subscribers, adding 5. 9 million members since March. That was bigger than expected and follows efforts by the company to re-ignite growth following unusual subscriber losses last spring. It is also facing challenges from ongoing strikes in the US by writers and actors. Netflix said it would spend less on content this year than expected as a result of the walkout - the industry's biggest in six decades, while boss Ted Sarandos said "we need to get this strike to a conclusion". "This strike is not an outcome that we wanted," he said. He said the company was committed to reaching an "equitable" agreement that helped the industry move into the future. But he added: "We've got a lot of work to do. "
Tesla chief executive Elon Musk says the electric carmaker could continue to cut prices as the world economy is in "turbulent times". The multi-billionaire's comments came after the company reported that its profit margins had been squeezed as it faced tough competition. In recent months, Tesla has cut its prices several times in major markets, including the US and China. The firm's shares fell by more than 4% in after-hours trade in New York. Tesla reported that its profit margin had fallen to the lowest level in four years. The company said its gross profit margin fell to 18. 2% for the three months to the end of June, down from 26. 2% for the same period last year.
Moscow has appointed a Chechen minister as the new head of yoghurt maker Danone's Russian subsidiary. Yakub Zakriev, deputy prime minister and agriculture minister of Chechnya, has been installed after Russia seized control of the French firm's business. Mr Zakriev is reportedly the nephew of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov - a key ally of Vladimir Putin. On Sunday, the Russian units of Danone and beer giant Carlsberg were put under "temporary management" of the state. President Putin introduced new rules allowing Moscow to seize the assets of companies from "unfriendly" countries. Many major Western companies halted their operations in Russia following the invasion of Ukraine. Before they were put under state control, Danone and Carlsberg were in the process of selling their Russian businesses.
Drivers are in for a "shock" as insurance premiums are up 40% on last year, according to a comparison site. Research by Cardiff-based Confused. com has found an increase in claims and more expensive repairs have led to the record rise in costs. The firm's boss Steve Dukes said some drivers had already seen "hefty increases in their premium". Car insurance now costs an average of £776 a year, up £222 compared to last year and the highest on record. The news comes as inflation in the UK dropped to 7. 9% in the year to June, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) has announced.

Banks have been condemned for "weak excuses" over customers' savings as MPs step up pressure on providers to pass on higher interest rates. Harriett Baldwin, who chairs the Treasury Select Committee, said: "The time for weak excuses is over. " The financial regulator also said it would soon look at whether minimal returns for loyal savers were offering fair value. Banks said they were providing a range of deals at competitive rates. MPs on the committee have been pressing banks and building societies to give a better deal for savers as interest rates have risen, through a series of hearings and letters. While an average new two-year fixed rate mortgage has an interest rate of 6. 78%, a typical instant access savings account has an interest rate of 2. 62%, according to the financial information service Moneyfacts. The Bank of England has lifted interest rates to 5%.

US jobs growth slowed last month in a sign that the weight of higher interest rates may be starting to slow the world's largest economy. Employers added 209,000 jobs in June, the smallest gain in more than two years, the Labor Department said. That was fewer than expected, though the unemployment rate still fell to 3. 6%, down from 3. 7% in May. The labour market is being watched closely, as the US central bank lifts borrowing costs to fight inflation. Hiring has remained strong, despite the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate jumping to more than 5% in little over a year. That held true in June, when analysts said the 209,000 jobs added were more than enough to accommodate growth in the labour force, despite it being the smallest number since December 2019.

European flights during the summer holiday period could be affected by strike action by air traffic managers. Eurocontrol, which manages flights over Europe, has said one of its unions could take industrial action, although no dates have been announced yet. Negotiations are continuing with the union and other unions, Eurocontrol said. Industry group Airlines UK urged Eurocontrol "to reach agreement as soon as possible". Another industry body, Airlines for Europe, said the possible impact of any strike action "remains to be determined". Eurocontrol said it was "making every effort to keep negotiations open and to find a constructive way forward". One of its trade unions, Union Syndicale Bruxelles, has "announced a period of six months during which industrial action could take place". It said the action could affect its Network Manager Operations Centre, which handles more than 10 million flights a year.
An oyster farmer who has taken the government to court over the discharge of sewage by water firms said he hoped to gain some concessions to the rules. Tom Haward, of Essex-based Richard Haward's Oysters, said the "relentless dumping of sewage into our seas" threatened oysters' breeding waters. Water firms have been given a deadline of 2050 to stop sewage discharges. The legal challenge aimed to force the government to bring the deadline forward and introduce tougher targets. A two-day High Court hearing ended on Thursday, with the judge expected to come back with his decision in writing at a later date. The action, brought by Mersea Island-based Richard Haward's Oysters, the Marine Conservation Society, and surfer and activist Hugo Tagholm, was supported by the Good Law Project, a not-for-profit legal company.
House prices have fallen at their fastest rate in 12 years, according to the Halifax, while mortgage rates continue to rise. The High Street lender said the annual fall of 2. 6% was equal to around £7,500 being wiped off the average UK house price, the biggest drop since 2011. Prices for June fell for the third month in a row, dipping 0. 1%, it said, indicative of a cooling market. The typical UK property now costs £285,932. The figures from the Halifax come as financial firm Moneyfacts released data on Friday showing the average two-year fixed rate mortgage had climbed to 6. 54%, a slight increase on the previous day.
Japanese workers have seen their pay go rise at a record rate after the government called on companies to help employees facing rising prices. Official figures show that compared to a year earlier wages rose by 1. 8% in May, the fastest pace in 28 years. Despite the hike, when inflation is taken into account people's buying power continued to fall in real terms. Inflation in Japan, which is the world's third largest economy, has been rising for more than a year. In recent months, prices have gone up around the world as pandemic restrictions were eased and the war in Ukraine pushed up the cost of key goods such as oil and wheat. In Japan costs of everyday items were also pushed higher by its weakening currency. The most recent official reading of Japan's inflation rate showed that core consumer prices rose by 3. 2% in May from a year earlier.

The bosses of nine major banks and building societies have been told to be more open with their customers over savings rates. The bosses of Lloyds, HSBC, NatWest and Barclays were among those quizzed by the regulator over concerns that interest rates on savings are too low. Interest rate rises have led lenders to hike mortgage costs, but savings rates have not been rising as fast. The meeting was "constructive", the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said. Sheldon Mills, from the FCA, said that bank customers were getting value from banking services in general, despite wider criticism that banks could be making excess profits. But, after the meeting with nine of the biggest savings providers, he said that banks and building societies needed to find the best ways to communicate with customers over the products on offer. He said rates on longer-term savings deals had improved, and there had been "some movement" over instant access accounts, and the progress should now accelerate.

Mothers may have been underpaid about £1bn in state pension owing to information missing from their national insurance (NI) records. Since 1978, the system has included credits for parents who took time out of employment to bring up children. Until 2010, this was known as home responsibilities protection (HRP), but it may be missing from some NI records. People who may be affected will receive letters from the government as part of a campaign to correct the issue. Some people affected may have died and their families will be entitled to check their eligibility and make a claim for any arrears. The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and HM Revenue and Customs are working together to find people affected and correct their records so they receive the right amount of state pension. There are high levels of uncertainty over the amount that could have been underpaid. This could range from £300m to £1. 5bn, the DWP has said.

30 million users have signed up for Meta's newly launched Threads app on its first day, the company's chief Mark Zuckerberg says. He pitched the app as a "friendly" rival to Twitter, which was bought by Elon Musk in October. Experts say Threads could attract Twitter users unhappy with recent changes to the platform. But Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino said though Twitter is "often imitated", its community can "never be duplicated". Threads allows users to post up to 500 characters, and has many features similar to Twitter. Earlier, Mr Zuckerberg said keeping the platform "friendly. . . will ultimately be the key to its success". But Mr Musk responded: "It is infinitely preferable to be attacked by strangers on Twitter, than indulge in the false happiness of hide-the-pain Instagram. " When asked on Threads whether the app will be "bigger than Twitter", Mr Zuckerberg said: "It'll take some time, but I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it.
Train companies are pressing ahead with plans to close hundreds of station ticket offices across England over the next three years. Under the proposals, some ticket kiosks would remain in large stations, but elsewhere staff will be on concourses to sell tickets, offer travel advice and help people with accessibility. The plan has been met with concern from unions and disability groups. A 21-day public consultation has been launched to collect passengers' views. Posters have gone up in stations, inviting the public to take part, after which the government will make the final decision on which offices will close. Currently around three out of every five stations has a ticket office, although some are only staffed part time. The issue is the latest flashpoint between train companies and unions, who have been in a long-running dispute over pay, jobs and working conditions, which has resulted in a series of strikes since last summer.

A US federal official judge has limited the Biden administration's communications with social media  firmswhich are aimed at moderating their content. In a 155-page ruling on Tuesday, judge Terry Doughty barred White House officials and some government agencies from contacting firms over "content containing protected free speech". It is a victory for Republicans who have accused officials of censorship. Democrats said the platforms have failed to address misinformation. The case was one of the most closely-watched First Amendment battles in the US courts, sparking a debate over the government's role in moderating content which it deemed to be false or harmful. The White House said the US Department of Justice was reviewing the ruling and deciding on its next steps. "Our consistent view remains that social media platforms have a critical responsibility to take account of the effects their platforms are having on the American people," the White House said in a statement.
A US court has ordered two precious metals companies to pay almost $146m (£115m) after more than 500,000 American Silver Eagle coins went missing. The firms and their owner Robert Higgins have been accused of running a "fraudulent and deceptive scheme". They had allegedly promised to store the coins for customers. However, when investigators entered vaults that were meant to hold the coins, they were nowhere to be found. Under the court settlement, precious metals dealer Argent Asset Group and First State Depository Company, which were both owned by Mr Higgins, were ordered to make restitutions of $112. 7m and pay a penalty of $33m. US financial watchdog the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) said Mr Higgins' companies ran "fraudulent silver leasing programmes" from 2014 to 2022. These were known as the Maximus Program and the Silver Lease Program.

Instagram owner Meta is launching its new app to rival Twitter and says it will go live on Thursday. The app, which is called Threads and is available for pre-order on the Apple App Store, will be linked to Instagram. Screengrabs show a dashboard that looks similar to Twitter. Meta describes Threads as a "text based conversation app". The move is the latest in a rivalry between Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter owner Elon Musk. Last month, the pair agreed to a physical fight, though it is unclear how serious the two men were about actually holding a bout. "Thank goodness they're so sanely run", Mr Musk responded to a tweet about Threads, in an apparent fresh swipe at Mr Zuckerberg. Meanwhile, Twitter has said that the popular user dashboard, TweetDeck will go behind a paywall in 30 days time.

The Chinese government is tightening controls over exports of two key materials used to make computer chips. From next month, special licenses will be needed to export gallium and germanium from China, which is the world's biggest producer of the metals. It comes after Washington's efforts to curb Chinese access to some advanced microprocessors. The announcement comes just days before a high-stakes trip to Beijing by US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen. On Monday, China's Ministry of Commerce said the restrictions were needed to "safeguard national security and interests". The silvery metals are used in semiconductor, communications and military equipment. They are also key materials in products like solar panels. Semiconductors, which power everything from mobile phones to military hardware, are at the centre of a bitter dispute between the world's two largest economies. The US has taken steps to restrict China's access to technology it fears could be put to military use, such as chips used for supercomputing and artificial intelligence.
The owners of a family-run bakery have decided to close its doors, with the loss of about 30 jobs, after they were involved in a serious car crash. Chris and Patrick Weston of Weston's Bakery in Sudbury, Suffolk, were injured on Friday, with Mr Weston remaining in hospital. The family said it was the final straw as they had been battling rising costs and had to shut a branch in May. "I feel we're both so lucky to be even breathing," said Mrs Weston. "I feel we can't go on any more as we are. "We're behind on bills because of ever increasing rising costs - the electricity bill is probably about £3,500 per month - and I think [we're] just finished. "
New Zealand has become the world's first country to expand its ban on plastic bags in supermarkets to thin bags, which are typically used to hold fruits or vegetables. The move, which took effect on Saturday, is part of a wider government campaign against single-use plastics. Most shoppers already bring their own bags to stores after take-home plastic bags were banned in 2019. In recent years, many countries have imposed a fee or ban on plastic bags. "New Zealand produces too much waste, too much plastic waste," Associate Environment Minister Rachel Brooking said. She added more than one billion plastic bags had been saved since the ban on thicker bags took effect in 2019. The new move is expected to prevent the usage of 150 million plastic bags per year.

Some manufacturers are refusing to hire young people because they are worried about their reliability, a study has revealed. Shropshire Chamber of Commerce said its quarterly survey showed some businesses were having trouble with younger people failing to turn up. As a result they were no longer seeking under-21s. Ruth Ross, the chamber's chief executive, said: "Getting the right staff is still proving difficult. " She said: "Interview no-shows, or younger recruits not even completing their first week, is hampering the manufacturing industries. " The chamber said hundreds of businesses responded to its survey, which is carried out anonymously. It said recruitment has been one of the biggest concerns noted in the survey for the past 18 months, but this is the first time any of the respondents have commented about specific problems they are having with younger recruits.
A change to the energy price cap has come into force, reducing domestic gas and electricity bills - with a further, smaller fall expected this winter. A household in England, Wales and Scotland using a typical amount of energy will now pay £2,074 a year, a drop of £426 a year. Analysts at the consultancy Cornwall Insight suggest the typical bill could fall to £2,000 a year this winter. However, that remains much higher than the pre-pandemic norm. Charities and suppliers have warned that even though prices are falling, there is a still a risk that many people with stretched finances will struggle to pay. The actual amount paid by households will vary depending on the amount of gas and electricity they use. On Friday, the chief executive of British Gas-owner Centrica, Chris O'Shea, said the "first act" of the energy crisis was over but risks remained.

The Netherlands has announced new rules restricting exports of certain semiconductor chip manufacturing equipment. It follows pressure from the US to curb the sale of computer chip technology to China. The Dutch government did not cite this as a reason though, saying it had taken the step on national security grounds. The Chinese government responded saying the decision was "not in the interests of any party" and would impact chip production and supply chains. Mao Ning, China's foreign ministry spokeswoman, said China opposed the US's "abuse of export controls" and its "use of various pretexts to win over and coerce other countries into imposing a technological blockade against China". The US is engaged in an arms race with China over control of the supply of semiconductors, especially certain computer chips used for supercomputing and artificial intelligence. Such chips have created a $500bn (£395bn) industry that is expected to double by 2030 and it is thought that whoever controls the supply chains - the network of companies and countries that make the chips - holds the key to being an unrivalled superpower.

The maker of the Pokemon Go video game, Niantic, says it will cut a quarter of its workforce as the gaming industry faces a slowdown in demand after downloads surged during the pandemic. The firm will also close its studio in Los Angeles and cancel two games. "We have allowed our expenses to grow faster than revenue," US-based Niantic's chief executive John Hanke said in a statement. Pokemon Go became a global phenomenon when it was released in 2016. At the time, technology giant Apple said the augmented-reality game broke its app store record for the most downloads in a week. "The top priority is to keep Pokemon Go healthy and growing as a forever game," Mr Hanke said. However, he also said that since the game's launch, "the mobile market has become crowded and changes to the app store and the mobile advertising landscape have made it increasingly hard to launch new mobile games at scale. "

A microscopic handbag "smaller than a grain of salt" has been sold for $63,750 (£50,569) at auction. A microscope is needed to view the bag's design, with the tiny object measuring 657 x 222 x 700 micrometres. "Narrow enough to pass through the eye of a needle, this is a purse so small you'll need a microscope to see it," the art collective behind the bag said. Art collective MSCHF, based in Brooklyn, is known for its controversial designs. They include shoes that contain human blood, trainers with holy water in the soles, a cologne that smells like WD-40, and giant red rubber boots. This time, the collective decided to take the trend of small handbags to the extreme. "There are big handbags, normal handbags and small handbags, but this is the final word in bag miniaturisation," MSCHF said in a post about the bag.
Sri Lanka began a five-day bank holiday from Thursday to allow the crisis-hit nation to restructure $42bn (£33. 2bn) in domestic debt. The country is facing its worst economic crisis since it won independence from the British in 1948. There are fears that the government's restructuring plan could lead to volatility in financial markets. Debt restructuring can involve the extension of the period over which a loan is repaid. The plans include a 30% "haircut" - or reduction - on some government bonds held by international lenders, central bank governor Nandalal Weerasinghe announced on Thursday. A day earlier, he had said banks were excluded from the domestic debt restructuring exercise. "The government expects the entire process to conclude while the markets are closed during these five days," Mr Weerasinghe said. "Local depositors are assured of the safety of their deposits and interests will not be affected. "

The UK has signed a pact with the EU to increase co-operation on financial services. It will set up a forum where the EU and UK can meet twice a year to discuss financial regulation and standards. The long-awaited move is being seen as a sign the UK is willing to work more closely with the EU. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said building a constructive relationship was of mutual benefit, as the UK and EU financial markets were "deeply interconnected". The memorandum of understanding that is being signed was first outlined in the UK-EU Trade and Co-operation Agreement, in the wake of the UK losing unfettered access to EU markets under Brexit. The text was published last month, and the memorandum itself amounts to a list of broad shared objectives. However, describing this as an "agreement" is misleading. It does not mean the UK is committing to align with the EU on regulation, nor conceding to any previous demands Brussels may have signalled, such as moving the processing of some euro-denominated financial instruments out of London.
Facebook owner Meta has launched a virtual reality (VR) subscription service of $7.99  as it tries to make that part of its business profitable. Meta says paying users will get access to two new games a month. For the first three months of the year, the parent company of Instagram saw a $4bn (£3. 1bn) loss at its VR unit. Meta faces competition from firms including technology giant Apple, which unveiled its highly anticipated mixed-reality headset this month. On Monday, the company said the Meta Quest+ service, which costs $7. 99 a month or $59. 99 for an annual subscription, was compatible with its Quest 2, Quest Pro and upcoming Quest 3 headsets.
HSBC is to move its world headquarters from its 45-storey Canary Wharf tower, possibly back to the City of London. The banking giant is to move out of 8 Canada Square by 2027 when its current lease expires, after two decades. The move is part of plans to downsize its office space following the Covid-19 pandemic, as the bank says it is now committed to flexible working. HSBC has told the BBC it is negotiating a new lease on BT's former headquarters near St Paul's Cathedral. The proposed new office, in the Panorama St Paul's development, will be much smaller than the bank's current headquarters, which houses about 8,000 staff.

Struggling cinema chain Cineworld has said its screens will remain open despite its plans to file for administration to cut its huge debts. Cineworld, which is the world's second-largest cinema chain, was hit hard by the Covid pandemic when many of its theatres were forced to close. But it has now announced plans to slash its $5bn (£3. 9bn) debt pile. The firm, which owns the Picturehouse chain in the UK, said it was still business as usual for its cinemas. Big films currently showing in the UK include Spiderman: Across the Spider-Verse and The Little Mermaid. "Cineworld continues to operate its global business and cinemas as usual without interruption and this will not be affected by the entry of Cineworld Group plc into administration," it said. "The group and its brands around the world - including Regal, Cinema City, Picturehouse and Planet - are continuing to welcome customers to cinemas as usual. "
PwC Australia says it will sell its government business for A$1 (50p) after a scandal over the misuse of confidential government tax plans. The accounting giant has also announced the appointment of a new chief executive in the country. The move will allow the firm "to move forward with predictability and focus," PwC Australia said in a statement. In January, it emerged that a former PwC Australia partner had leaked the classified information. The ex-partner, who was advising the Australian government, had shared drafts of corporate tax avoidance laws with colleagues, who used it to pitch to potential clients. The leaks occurred between 2014 and 2017. The company has said that no confidential information had been used to help clients pay less tax. However, politicians and officials have called for PwC Australia to be banned from being awarded government contracts until it satisfactorily responded to the scandal.

Shoppers have been splashing out on new outfits and other items for enjoying the summer weather, boosting sales overall, latest retail figures show. After the sun came out in the second half of May, sales volumes rose by a stronger than expected 0. 3%, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said. Online retailers and garden centres did particularly well, the ONS said. Fuel sales also rose compared to April, but people bought less food as prices continued to rise. "Retail sales grew a little in May, with online shops doing particularly well selling outdoor goods and summer clothes, as the sun began to shine," Heather Bovill, senior statistician at the ONS said. "Garden centres and DIY stores also saw growth, as the good weather encouraged people to start home and garden improvements. " 
US toy giant Hasbro has brought back the iconic Furby robotic creature, which was hugely popular when it was launched a quarter of a century ago. The firm hopes a new generation of children will "discover their own curious little creature". The new Furby has its familiar bulbous eyes, yellow beak and colourful fur. It also speaks in gibberish and responds to hugs, pats and tickles. The announcement comes as the toy industry faces a slowdown in demand. "Over the past few years, we've done a lot of research to understand what kids would want to see in a new Furby," said Kristin McKay, a vice president and general manager at Hasbro. The new toy is programmed to have more than 600 responses. It can react to commands, mimic sounds, dance and be "fed".

Thousands of rail workers will strike on three days in July as part of a long-running dispute about pay and conditions. Strikes at 14 rail firms have been called on 20, 22 and 29 July, the RMT union said. It said negotiations with rail firms and the government had stalled. But train operators said the action was "totally unnecessary" and urged the union to put the latest pay offer to its members. Previous strikes in the dispute have caused widespread disruption. Unions are pushing for more pay as the cost of living rises rapidly, but rail firms have said they will not pay more without concessions on conditions. The RMT said 20,000 of its members, including guards, train managers and station staff, would walk out after train operators did not make a new offer.

Two of the world's most high-profile technology billionaires - Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg - have agreed to fight each other in a cage match. Mr Musk posted a message on his social media platform Twitter that he was "up for a cage fight" with Mr Zuckerberg. Mr Zuckerberg, the boss of Facebook and Instagram parent company Meta, then posted a screenshot of Mr Musk's tweet with the caption "send me location". "The story speaks for itself," a Meta spokesperson told the BBC. Mr Musk then replied to Mr Zuckerberg's response with: "Vegas Octagon. " The Octagon is the competition mat and fenced-in area used for Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) bouts. The UFC is based in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr Musk, who turns 52 later this month, also tweeted: "I have this great move that I call 'The Walrus', where I just lie on top of my opponent & do nothing. " He later tweeted short videos of walruses, perhaps suggesting his challenge to Mr Zuckerberg may not entirely be serious.

The Bank of England is expected to raise interest rates for a 13th consecutive time later as it tries to tackle rising prices. Official data on Wednesday showed that inflation, the annual rate at which prices go up, was stuck at 8. 7% in May. That has made it more likely for the Bank to announce a rise in its benchmark rate from 4. 5%. Interest rates remain its primary tool to lower inflation, despite debate over its effectiveness. Analysts say an increase to 4. 75% is most likely, but a bigger increase to 5% remains a possibility, although one economist suggested such a rise could suggest the Bank has "completely lost control of inflation". Any such change would mean further pain for some homeowners, but it could benefit savers.

Singapore's financial regulator has fined four companies over breaches related to the Wirecard scandal. The penalties total S$3. 8m ($2. 8m; £2. 2m), the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) says. The MAS said that while the breaches were serious, it did not find any "wilful misconduct" by employees at the financial institutions. Separately, two former employees of the payments firm Wirecard were sentenced to jail in the city state this week. In a statement, the MAS said it had imposed the fines on Singaporean banks DBS, OCBC and the local businesses of US-based Citigroup and insurance firm Swiss Life. DBS, which is Singapore's biggest bank, received the largest penalty, a S$2. 6m fine. It failed to "adequately establish the source of wealth of higher risk customers" and "inquire into the background and purpose of unusually large transactions," the MAS said.
Australia's cyber watchdog has called on Twitter, which is owned by multi-billionaire Elon Musk, to explain its handling of online hate. The country's online safety commissioner says Twitter has become the most complained about platform. Twitter has been 28 days to respond to the regulator or face potential fines of hundreds of thousands of dollars. Mr Musk bought the firm last year for $44bn (A$64bn; £34. 5bn) and promised to protect free speech on the platform. A legal notice was sent to Twitter demanding an explanation after one-third of all complaints received about online hate concerned the platform, Julie Inman Grant said. That is even though Twitter has far fewer users than TikTok, Facebook and Instagram. The company has been told to respond to the watchdog within 28 days or face penalties of up to A$700,000 (£371,570; $475,300) a day for continuing breaches.
Oxford United did not pay the minimum wage to its lowest paid staff, the Department for Business and Trade said. According to a government report, the club failed to pay £10,826. 74 to 31 workers. Oxford United said the underpayments had happened between 2015 and 2018, but had now been resolved. In a statement the club said it "took steps to ensure this would not recur, and these are constantly reviewed across all areas of the business". Oxford United was among 202 businesses named by the government as having breached the National Minimum Wage Law. "The club took on all recommendations, and made all relevant repayments, before the case was closed at the end of 2018," it said.
South East Asia's leading ride-hailing and food delivery app, Grab, says it is cutting 1,000 jobs - amounting to 11% of its workforce. The company's boss said the cuts were needed to bring down costs and ensure affordable services in the long term. The Singapore-based firm offers deliveries, rides and financial services in eight Southeast Asian countries. In 2018, Grab took over the operations of US-based rival Uber in the region. In an email to employees, chief executive Anthony Tan said the cuts, which are the biggest since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, were not "a shortcut to profitability. " He also highlighted the impact of new technology and rising borrowing costs: "Change has never been this fast. Technology such as generative AI [artificial intelligence] is evolving at breakneck speed. The cost of capital has gone up, directly impacting the competitive landscape". 
The company owner which runs the Iceland supermarket franchise in the Republic of Ireland has been placed into examinership. Examinership is similar to administration in the UK and is a process allowing a financially troubled company time to seek new investment. Metron Stores Ltd has operated the Iceland stores in the Republic of Ireland since March of this year. Last week the firm was ordered to withdraw all imported frozen food of animal origin.

More than six million people with disabilities in the UK will start to receive a £150 payment from Tuesday, to help with the cost of living. Households who qualify will receive the payment, distributed by the government, over the next two weeks, between 20 June and 4 July. The payment is made automatically and those eligible for the support do not need to take any action. It follows a disability cost-of-living payment paid in September.
A baker said the future of his business was in doubt because energy costs had increased by more than 700%. Andy Cole from The Bakery in Felixstowe, Suffolk, said his bills had gone up from £800 per month to £6,500. He said he was locked into a contract with Smartest Energy, and said he would have to shut the bakery, and eight members of staff would lose their jobs, if changes to his bills were not made. Smartest Energy has been approached by the BBC for comment. Mr Cole, who has run the bakery on Hamilton Road for 12 years, said he gets charged up to 80p a unit. He said a couple of years ago he was paying £800 a month, while the latest direct debit was for £6,500.

Do Kwon, the cryptocurrency boss behind the $40bn (£31. 3bn) collapse of the terraUSD and Luna tokens, has been sentenced to four months of jail in Montenegro. Mr Kwon was found guilty of forging official documents. He was arrested in March as he tried to board a flight to Dubai at Podgorica Airport, in the country's capital. Mr Kwon also faces charges in the US and South Korea over the collapse of the two digital tokens last year. The former finance officer of Mr Kwon's company Terraform Labs, Han Chang-joon, was also sentenced to four months in prison after being found guilty of the same charges. Mr Kwon and Mr Han pleaded not guilty at their first court hearing in May. The sentences will include the time that Mr Kwon and Mr Han have already spent in detention after being arrested in March, the court said in a statement.

Indian carrier IndiGo has made a record order for 500 Airbus A320 aircraft - the largest single purchase agreement by any airline in commercial aviation history. The deal, announced on the first day of the Paris Airshow, is worth roughly $55bn (£43bn) before any bulk-order discounts. IndiGo now has an order book of 1,330 aircraft with Airbus. It is expected to mean a stream of deliveries between 2030 and 2035. The new deliveries will help budget carrier IndiGo lower its operating costs and improve fuel efficiency, the company says. India is a burgeoning aviation market, with some analysts saying it is on track to replace China as the aerospace industry's next growth frontier. The country is expected to be the fastest-growing G20 economy over the next few years and has seen a significant increase in the number of first-time flyers since the pandemic. And there's still a large runway for growth. Under 5% of the country's 1. 4 billion people are estimated to have ever taken a flight and air traffic in India has been growing hugely as disposable incomes rise.

Morrisons and M&S have become the latest supermarkets to cut the price of basics as retailers face pressure to do more to tackle soaring living costs. The chains will cut the price of many goods including minced beef, tomatoes and Greek yoghurt. It follows similar cuts by Tesco, Sainsbury's and Aldi and comes as food price inflation is stubbornly high. Retailers have been accused of not passing on falling wholesale costs to consumers, but they deny profiteering. Morrisons, the UK's fifth largest supermarket chain, said the latest round of price cuts was its sixth this year and the reductions would remain in place for eight weeks. It says more than 47 popular products including squash, cereal and pitta bread will be cut by on average 25%, to help with the cost of living
Improving a rail junction would take about 100,000 lorry journeys off the road per year, a report said. Keeping Trade on Track said an upgrade to Ely junction in Cambridgeshire would also double passenger services on the Ely-Kings Lynn and Ipswich-Peterborough routes. England's Economic Heartland and Transport East's report said changes were of "national significance". Network Rail estimated the work would cost £466m. The new report, from the two main bodies which study transport matters in the East of England, is another attempt to persuade the government to upgrade the notorious bottleneck. It focuses on the impact on rail freight and describes the line from the Port of Felixstowe in Suffolk to the Midlands and North of England as "the most intensively used and nationally important rail freight corridor on the network". "This is a corridor that's vital for global Britain's trade with the world which is served by a Victorian railway no longer fit for purpose," the report said.
Italy has moved to block a Chinese state-owned company from taking control of tyre making giant Pirelli. The decision is part of measures announced by Italy's government to protect Pirelli's independence. Beijing-controlled chemical giant Sinochem is Pirelli's biggest shareholder, with a 37% stake in the 151-year-old Milan-based firm. It comes as tensions between Beijing and the West are in focus as the US secretary of state visits China. On Sunday, Pirelli said in a statement to investors that the Italian government had ruled that only Camfin - a company controlled by Pirelli's boss Marco Tronchetti Provera - could nominate candidates to be its chief executive. Pirelli also said the government had decided that any changes to the company's corporate governance should be subject to official scrutiny. 
Tesco's boss has said there are "encouraging early signs" that price rises are easing as the retail giant reported higher sales. Ken Murphy said he was "very conscious" of the financial pressure on shoppers, but hit back at claims that the supermarket was profiteering. The chief executive said he believed it was unfair for grocers to be blamed for inflation remaining at a high level. Latest figures showed food inflation hit 19. 1% in the year to April. The rate at which food prices are rising has been pointed out as one reason why the inflation rate for all consumer goods is not falling as quickly as expected, with prices still 8. 7% higher than a year ago.

Amazon has been given the go-ahead to purchase a company which makes robotic vacuum cleaners, following a review by the government's competition watchdog. The online giant moved to buy iRobot, maker of the Roomba cleaner, last August but the deal was called in by the Competition and Markets Authority. The watchdog looked into whether the takeover would put Amazon at an unfair advantage over its competitors. But on Friday it announced the merger could go ahead. The CMA found that iRobot's place in the UK market was "modest" and that it already faced several significant rivals. It also concluded that the UK market for robot vacuum cleaners was small and not expected to grow significantly in the future. The $1. 7bn (£1. 4bn) deal will allow Amazon to grow its operations for smart home appliances. Roomba models sell in the UK from £249, with some costing up to £899.

Microsoft's co-founder Bill Gates met China's President Xi Jinping on Friday as tensions remain high between Washington and Beijing. Mr Xi told Mr Gates that he was "the first American friend" he had met in Beijing this year, according to Chinese state media. Mr Gates is the latest high-profile US business leader to visit China since it reopened its borders. This weekend, the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will also visit China. "I often say that the foundation of Sino-US relations is among the people, and we always look to the American people and hope that the two peoples will continue to be friendly," Mr Xi was reported to have said to Mr Gates. It was Mr Xi's first meeting with a foreign business figure in recent years. He stopped travelling abroad in 2020, when China shut its borders during the pandemic. Mr Xi and Mr Gates are last known to have met in 2015. This year, Tesla's Elon Musk, Jamie Dimon of JP Morgan and Apple's Tim Cook have all travelled to the country. While they held meetings with senior Chinese officials, they did not meet Mr Xi.

Sir Richard Branson's space tourism company Virgin Galactic says it will launch its first commercial flight before the end of this month. The firm is targeting a launch window for the flight, which is called Galactic 01, from 27 June to 30 June. After the announcement to investors, Virgin Galactic shares jumped more than 40% in extended New York trading. In May, Virgin Orbit - a separate space firm owned by the UK billionaire - shut down, months after a mission failed. Virgin Galactic said the first flight will be a scientific research mission, carrying three crew members from the Italian Air Force and the National Research Council of Italy to conduct microgravity research. The company said its second commercial spaceflight will follow in early August, and it expects to operate monthly spaceflights from then on. It marks a key milestone for the 19-year-old Virgin Galactic, which has had to overcome a series of accidents and technical challenges.

Nationwide will become the latest lender to raise mortgage rates again, with increases of up to 0. 7 percentage points taking effect on Friday. The building society, one of the UK's biggest lenders, said that the changes were being made to ensure it could serve all its customers. Another lender, Clydesdale Bank, said it was withdrawing deals via brokers later on Thursday owing to high demand. One broker said the market was in a "vicious circle". Andrew Montlake, of Coreco, said that lenders were putting up rates at short-notice, then borrowers were grabbing deals, leaving lenders inundated and having to pull or raise rates again. "It is massively hard to navigate for everyone, especially clients, who need to make quick decisions in these circumstances, whilst brokers are working round the clock to try to lock in to these rates," he said.

The UK has "no alternative" but to hike interest rates in a bid to tackle rising prices, the chancellor has said. Jeremy Hunt said inflation - the rate at which prices rise - was the "number one challenge we face". He said the government would be "unstinting in our support" for the Bank of England "to do what it takes" to slow inflation. Rising interest rates and mortgage costs weighed on UK economic growth in April. While the economy grew by 0. 2%, the Office for National Statistics said that housebuilders and estate agents had a "poor month".

A deal to create the UK's biggest mobile phone operator has been struck by Vodafone and the owner of Three UK. The firms plan to merge their UK-based operations, giving them around 27 million customers and making it the biggest mobile network in the UK. The deal is yet to be approved by regulators, which will look at whether it will push up customer prices. The Vodafone and Three merger will take their combined market share past Virgin Media O2's. Virgin Media O2 has around 24 million mobile customers while EE, which is owned by BT Group, has 20 million users. Vodafone and Three UK are the country's third and fourth largest mobile firms. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) confirmed that it will examine the merger. The competition watchdog said: "Both Vodafone and Three are key players in the UK communications market - with millions of consumers and many businesses relying on their services - so it's right that the CMA reviews the impact this deal could have on competition. "

Bud Light has lost its position as the best-selling beer in the US after facing a boycott, new figures show. In the four weeks to 3 June sales were down by almost a quarter, according to consulting firm Bump Williams. Some drinkers in the US stopped buying Bud Light after transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney showed off a personalised can of the beer. It means Modelo Especial has taken the top spot, with 8. 4% of US beer sales by value in the period. Bud Light had kept its position as America's best-selling beer for the first five months of the year, according to an analysis by consulting firm Bump Williams of data from research firm Nielsen. However, the figures show that sales of Bud Light have slumped since April, when Ms Mulvaney posted an image on Instagram of a personalised can of Bud Light that the beer maker had sent her.

The maker of Pyrex glassware and Instant Pot multicookers has filed for bankruptcy protection, with as much as $1bn (£790m) in liabilities. Instant Brands blames high interest rates and weak demand for its problems. The company, which has more than 2,400 workers, plans to keep operating while it shakes up the business. It comes after another iconic kitchenware brand, Tupperware, warned in April that it could go bust unless it could quickly raise new financing. Instant Brands says it saw strong sales during the pandemic as people were stuck at home. However, its president and chief executive, Ben Gadbois, said that "tightening of credit terms and higher interest rates impacted our liquidity levels and made our capital structure unsustainable".

A judge has granted a request by US regulators to temporarily block Microsoft's $69bn (£56bn) takeover of Activision Blizzard. The court says the temporary restraining order "is necessary to maintain the status quo while the complaint is pending". The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) says the deal could "substantially lessen competition" in the sector. A two-day hearing is now due to take place from 22 June in San Francisco. The deal to buy Activision Blizzard - the company behind Call of Duty and Candy Crush - would be the biggest in the history of the video games industry. It has split competition regulators in the UK, US and Europe. The UK has blocked buyout while the European Union approved it. In order for the deal to go through, Microsoft and Activision need approval from regulators in the UK, the EU and the US. The FTC has argued that the deal would give Microsoft's Xbox console exclusive access to Activision games, leaving competitors Nintendo and Sony out in the cold.
Designs for a new building which could replace the former Debenhams department store in a city centre have been revealed by developers. Lanpro wants to build a complex of shops, leisure units and student accommodation on the site of the old store in Norwich. It has released an artist's impression of the development, ahead of a public consultation event on 23 June. The property developer is working on plans to submit to the city council. It purchased the building in 2021 - which will be called Orford House - after Debenhams closed its doors for the final time in May that year. The department store chain had occupied the Orford Place site since the 1950s.

A vegan food company has stopped trading and let its staff go after it was unable to survive in the tough meat-free market. Meatless Farm made plant-based alternatives to meat and was stocked in major UK supermarkets, but made its 50-strong workforce redundant on Friday. In 2021 at its peak, it sold over £11m worth of its plant-based mince, burgers and chicken breasts. The firm's demise comes amid a wider slump in demand for meat alternatives. Insolvency firm Kroll is now advising the firm on its options, as the company's website says it is "currently unavailable". Commercial director Tim Offer said on his Linkedin profile: "Sadly, my time at Meatless Farm has come to an end. . . the business has unfortunately made all the teams redundant. "

US billionaire philanthropist George Soros has handed over the running of his $25bn (£19. 9bn) financial and charitable empire to his son Alex. The Hungarian-born financier said his son had "earned it", in an interview with the Wall Street Journal. Since the 1990s the family's wealth has been directed to support democracy-building in dozens of countries. But in recent years the 92-year-old former hedge fund manager has become the focus of anti-Semitic conspiracies. A Soros spokesperson confirmed to the BBC the details of the interview published on Sunday. George Soros is also one of the largest donors to the US Democratic Party. Alex, a 37-year-old history graduate, is the second-youngest of his five children.

The windfall tax on oil and gas firms will be scrapped if prices fall to normal levels for a sustained period, the government has announced. Halting the windfall tax would cut the overall tax rate on energy firms from 75% to 40%. A windfall tax is used to target firms which benefit from something they were not responsible for. It was introduced last year to help fund a scheme to lower energy bills for households and businesses. Energy firm profits have soared recently, initially due to rising demand after Covid restrictions were lifted, and then because Russia's invasion of Ukraine raised energy prices.
UK firms could gain access to US green funding as part of plans to boost UK and US ties announced by Rishi Sunak and Joe Biden. The pair unveiled the Atlantic Declaration, to strengthen economic ties between the two countries, at a White House press conference. The PM said the agreement, which falls short of a full trade deal would bring benefits "as quickly as possible". UK electric car firms may get access to US green tax credits and subsidies. As the pair unveiled their partnership to bolster economic security, Mr Sunak said the UK-US relationship was an "indispensable alliance". The Atlantic Declaration, includes commitments on easing trade barriers, closer defence industry ties and a data protection deal and steps up co-operation on AI.

The eurozone fell into recession this winter, revised figures show, as consumers were hit by rising prices. The economy of the 20 nation-bloc contracted by 0. 1% between January and March, after also shrinking in the final three months of 2022. A recession is generally defined as when an economy shrinks for two three-month periods, or quarters, in a row. As in other regions, the eurozone has been hit by rising food and energy prices that have weighed on households. Spending by households in the bloc fell by 0. 3% in the first three months of 2023, and by 1% in the previous quarter. Initial growth estimates had suggested that the eurozone had avoided a recession and expanded by 0. 1% in the first three months of the year. But updated figures from Eurostat showed it had shrunk in the first quarter. Revised data from Germany - Europe's largest economy - contributed to the move into recession.

Loyal bank customers are being offered "measly" rates of interest on their savings, a committee of MPs has said. The trend, which particularly affects older and more vulnerable customers, are the result of banks chasing higher profit margins, MPs on the Treasury Committee claimed. Rates on instant access savings products are much lower than the Bank of England base rate. Banks said they had to balance the needs of savers and borrowers. In the past few months MPs on the committee have been challenging major banking bosses on the returns offered to their savings customers. In February, the chief executives of the four biggest banks in the UK - Lloyds, NatWest, HSBC and Barclays - were given a grilling in Parliament.

A specialist loose tea and coffee shop that became a city institution has closed after 50 years in business. Wilkinson's of Norwich, on Lobster Lane, won fans for its different blends of tea leaves and ground coffee. A notice has been placed in the shop's window to announce its closure, with the owners thanking customers. A post on a community Facebook group has been liked by nearly 500 people, with one writing it was a "real loss to Norwich". Others mentioned it was "sad" to see the independent shop close, while someone else wrote "another independent business bites the dust".

Crypto companies must offer customers a 24-hour "cooling-off period" in sweeping changes to how the digital assets can be marketed in the UK. New investors will have to wait a full day before they can complete their transaction. The government estimates up to one out of every 10 of UK adults now owns some form of crypto. Bosses of companies that fail to comply could face up to two years' imprisonment, a fine, or both. "Refer a friend" adverts will be banned , while others must be "clear, fair and not misleading". The rules, set to take effect from 8 October, will apply to crypto assets which are transferable and fungible - including digital currencies such as Bitcoin. This means purchases of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) will not be covered by the new advertising rules, aside from a ban on offering them as an incentive for investing in crypto.

Marks & Spencer has become the latest retailer to scrap use-by dates on milk as part of efforts to cut food waste. The dates, which are meant to tell customers when food is safe to eat, will be replaced by best-before dates instead, which are recommendations on freshness. The supermarket chain urged customers to use their judgement on whether the milk is safe to use. M&S follows retailers including Morrisons in changing milk labelling. Milk is among the foods that are thrown away the most by UK households, alongside bread and potatoes, according to environmental charity Wrap. It said nearly 490 million pints are wasted each year, and the "main reason is not drinking before the use-by date".

TikTok's owner ByteDance has been accused of allowing Chinese Communist Party (CCP) members to access the data of Hong Kong civil rights activists and protesters. Users who uploaded "protest-related content" were also identified and monitored, former ByteDance executive Yintao Yu alleges in a US court filing. The CCP members were also able to access US TikTok user data, Mr Yu says. A ByteDance spokesperson denied the claims, describing them as "baseless". The allegations are contained in a San Francisco Superior Court filing made this week as part of a lawsuit brought by Mr Yu. In the filing, Mr Yu claimed that members of a CCP committee had access to a "superuser" credential, which was also known as "god user", which allowed them to view all data collected by ByteDance. He also alleged that the committee members were not ByteDance employees but were physically present at the company's offices in Beijing. This was common knowledge among senior executives, said Mr Yu, who for around a year from August 2017 was a head of engineering in the US for ByteDance.
The US has charged the biggest crypto trading platform Coinbase  in the country with operating illegally, widening its crackdown on the industry. The Securities and Exchange Commission said Coinbase had acted as a broker, exchange and clearing agency for investments that are subject to SEC rules, without properly registering. The regulator said that had allowed the firm to escape oversight, including guards against conflicts of interest. Coinbase said the rules were not clear. "The solution is legislation that allows fair rules for the road to be developed transparently and applied equally, not litigation," said Paul Grewal, Coinbase's chief legal officer. "In the meantime, we'll continue to operate our business as usual. " The complaint against Coinbase comes a day after the SEC sued Binance, the world's largest crypto trading platform, accusing the firm of mishandling customer funds, artificially inflating trading volume on the site and taking steps to evade US regulation.
Energy giant SSE is to pay £9. 8m for breaching its generation licence, the industry regulator has announced. Ofgem said the Perth-based company overcharged the National Grid Electricity System Operator during a time of "transmission constraint". This is when operators are paid to drop output if there is not enough network capacity to take power out of an area where generation outstrips demand. Ofgem said there was no evidence that SSE's actions were deliberate.

Walkers - the makers of British crisp classics such as Wotsits and Monster Munch  is to see a £58m investment and up to 100 new jobs created at its Leicester site. Owners PepsiCo said it was its biggest investment in the UK for 25 years. The site - one of the world's biggest crisp and snack factories - is marking its 75th anniversary. PepsiCo said the investment would see a new manufacturing line installed and existing machinery replaced. It will also mean major work on the employee facilities for the site's 1,120-strong workforce, including training areas, a new on-site restaurant and meeting rooms. PepsiCo said the investment would help secure the future of the factory and position Walkers for further growth in the long-term.
The more than 180-year-long history of horse racing in Singapore is set to draw to a close. It has been announced that the small Southeast Asian nation's only racecourse - Singapore Turf Club - will hold its final meeting next year. The country's government will take back the 120-hectare site, which will be used for public and private housing. Queen Elizabeth II, who was an avid racegoer and racehorse breeder, has an event named after her at the course. Her late Majesty presented the inaugural Queen Elizabeth II Cup during a visit to Singapore in 1972. She attended the feature race a second time in 2006. "Horse racing has a long and distinguished history in Singapore," the Singapore Turf Club said in a statement late on Monday.
Pop star Jason Derulo is famous for his hit songs and TikTok videos, but these days he feels like he is a businessman as much as a musician. The Savage Love singer says his least "sexy" investment is his most recent - a US car wash chain. "I took a chance on it because its membership model reminded me of what Netflix and Uber did," Derulo told the BBC. Rocket Car Wash offers a monthly subscription for unlimited car washes. But it is just one of many business ventures he is putting his money into. "Usually I'd describe myself as an entertainer, but I feel like that has changed," he told BBC World Service podcast Business Daily. "I don't think I could only say entertainer anymore. It's business nowadays. "

Linda Yaccarino, the new boss of troubled social media firm Twitter, has started the role earlier than expected. Ms Yaccarino, previously head of advertising at NBCUniversal, joined days after Twitter lost its second head of trust and safety. Elon Musk had announced on 12 May that his successor would join in six weeks but her start date appears to have been brought forward. Twitter also announced it had recruited Joe Benarroch from NBCUniversal. Mr Benarroch was senior vice president of communications, advertising and partnerships at the media giant. He also worked for a number of years at Meta, the company behind Facebook and Instagram. At Twitter he will focus on business operations. Mr Musk has said he plans to remain involved with the firm. The billionaire owner of Twitter said last year he would resign as chief executive once he found "someone foolish enough to take the job".

The engineering giant Siemens, Microsoft and oil firm Esso have signed a letter backing the CBI ahead of a crunch vote on its future. The firms are among 13 signatories of a letter seen by the BBC giving the business group a "mandate to continue". The CBI is fighting for its survival after claims of sexual misconduct against staff led to an exodus of members, including John Lewis and BMW. Results of the "critical" vote will be revealed next week. The ballot on a "programme of change" is likely to be seen as a key moment for the organisation's future. Asked if the lobby group would shut down in the event it lost support, the CBI's director-general Rain Newton-Smith told the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg it was a "really nerve-racking time". But Ms Newton-Smith, who has described the vote as critical, said she was "absolutely determined that we lead this programme of change" so that the CBI could be a "collective voice for business".
Diesel prices fell by a record 12p per litre on average in the UK last month, according to the RAC. Pump prices dropped from about £1. 59 to £1. 47, the group said, cutting the cost of filling up a family car by £6. 50. The RAC said the reduction was the largest monthly drop it had seen since it began monitoring prices in 2000. But the motoring group argued the drop in price was "both long overdue and smaller than it should be" due to wholesale prices being lower. The British Retail Consortium, which represents supermarkets, said "big cuts" had been made to diesel prices in response to falling wholesale costs. Diesel prices are now down more than 25% from 2022 highs, after falling for seven months in a row.

The Republic of Ireland’s domestic economy recovered strongly in the first quarter of 2023, official data suggests. Output, as measured by modified domestic demand (MDD), expanded by 2. 7% compared to the final quarter of 2022. It had fallen in the third and fourth quarters of last year as the impact of inflation hit the economy. However gross domestic product (GDP), a measure which is heavily distorted in Ireland by the activities of US multinational companies, contracted by 4. 6% in the first quarter. In 2017 Ireland’s statistical agency, the CSO, acknowledged that GDP and GNP (gross national product) had become so distorted that they no longer provided a sufficient understanding of the country’s domestic economy.
Twitter's second head of trust and safety under owner Elon Musk has resigned, according to reports. Ella Irwin took the post when previous head Yoel Roth left in November 2022 - a month after Mr Musk took over the company. The head of trust and safety is tasked with content moderation, a topic which has come under the spotlight since Mr Musk's takeover. The BBC has approached Twitter and Ms Irwin for comment. She confirmed to both Reuters and the Wall Street Journal that she has stepped down. The reason for her resignation is unclear. However, it comes a day after Mr Musk publicly criticised a content moderation decision made at Twitter. He called the decision to limit the visibility of a video over allegations of misgendering, "a mistake by many people at Twitter". "Whether or not you agree with using someone's preferred pronouns, not doing so is at most rude and certainly breaks no laws," he wrote.

Debt advisors will no longer be allowed to receive a fee for referring people to debt solution companies. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) banned the fees after finding some companies were putting them ahead of customers' best interests. The average fee advisors received for an individual voluntary arrangement (IVAs) referral in 2019-2020 was £940. A homeless client was recommended an IVA costing £6,000, but could have been debt-free for £90, the FCA found. Citizens Advice said banning referral fees was "a big step towards tackling the way some firms prey on and profit from people struggling with debt". The FCA said the ban applied to "debt packagers" which are regulated providers of debt advice, who typically do not offer debt solutions themselves. They will no longer be able to receive referral fees paid by debt solution companies.

The US and Taiwan signed a new trade deal on Thursday as tensions with China rise. It is the first agreement under a framework for talks between Washington and Taipei called the US-Taiwan Initiative on 21st Century Trade. The announcement comes ahead of a high-level global security summit in Singapore this weekend. In recent years, the relationship between the US and China has become increasingly strained. Taiwan's Office of Trade Negotiations said the agreement was signed on Thursday morning, US time. Deputy United States Trade Representative Sarah Bianchi attended the event, held near Washington at the offices of the American Institute in Taiwan, the US government said.

UK house prices fell at their fastest annual pace for nearly 14 years in May, the Nationwide has said. The building society said prices in the year to May dropped by 3. 4%, the biggest decline since July 2009. It also warned that more rises in mortgage interest rates could hit the housing market. Mortgage rates have risen recently on expectations that the Bank of England will have to lift interest rates again because of stubbornly high inflation. As a result, the Nationwide said "headwinds to the housing market look set to strengthen in the near term". House prices edged down by 0. 1% in May itself, the Nationwide said, and the average property price now stands at £260,736. Average prices are still 4% below their August 2022 peak, it added.

Just three companies accounted for a third of all corporation tax collected in the Republic of Ireland between 2017 and 2021, new research suggests. The Irish Fiscal Advisory Council (IFAC) said that amounted to €5. 2bn (£4. 46bn) in 2021 alone and probably increased last year, external. Corporation tax is the tax that companies pay on their profits. Ireland has been reaping a corporation tax bonanza as reforms to global rules mean major US companies are choosing to pay tax on their international profits in the country.
Australian mining giant BHP says it underpaid current and former workers across the country for 13 years. Around 28,500 employees received less holiday than they were entitled to, a review conducted by the firm found. Meanwhile, 400 workers did not get additional allowances "due to an error with the employment entity. " BHP says it has reported the incident to the authorities and the errors will cost the company up to $280m (£225m) before taxes. Some affected employees had their leave incorrectly deducted on Australian public holidays, the company found. As a result they were owed a total of six days of leave on average. "We are sorry to all current and former employees impacted by these errors. This is not good enough and falls short of the standards we expect at BHP," Geraldine Slattery, BHP's Australia president, said.

More than 1,000 staff at Amazon participated in a one-hour protest over the internet giant's climate record and its push to bring office staff back to offices, according to organisers. The action was put together by staff advocacy groups. They said morale at the company was at an "all-time low" due to a series of "short-sighted decisions" by leaders. Amazon disputed the number of participants, while saying it respected workers' rights to express opinions. It said its security team counted closer to 300 employees taking part in the protest at the company's headquarters in Seattle and it was not aware of any other physical walkouts.
The boss of the CBI business group has admitted the result of a vote on its plans for change following allegations of sexual misconduct is "critical". Rain Newton-Smith said there was "no doubt" that the vote among its members on reforms at the organisation was a "really important moment for us". She told the BBC the CBI had spoken to more than 1,000 firms in recent weeks. The group is fighting for survival after allegations of rape and sexual assault against staff. The misconduct claims have resulted in some big household names among its 190,000-strong membership to leave, including John Lewis and BMW. Others such as Tesco and Sainsbury's have also suspended engagement with the group. The government has also paused activity with the CBI. Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has said there was "no point" working with the lobby group when its own members had deserted it.

Tesla chief executive Elon Musk is in China, as he makes his first trip to the world's second largest economy in over three years. He arrived in Beijing on Tuesday and is also expected to visit Tesla's huge manufacturing plant in Shanghai. The multi-billionaire met China's foreign minister Qin Gang within hours of arriving in the country. Mr Musk has not yet publicly commented on the trip, which comes amid tensions between the US and China. He also declined to make any comments about his plans for the trip when asked by reporters as he left a hotel in Beijing on Wednesday. Later on Wednesday, Mr Musk met China's industry minister Jin Zhuanglong and discussed the development of electric vehicles.

Households with prepayment meters are being urged to make sure they have cashed in all their energy vouchers before the end of June. The government says that while more than four in five vouchers have been used, £130m is still available. The voucher scheme provides support of £400 per household. Customers are being told to contact their electricity supplier over the next few weeks if they have any issues with their vouchers. The Energy Bills Support Scheme was announced by the government last year, and provided £400 to each household in Britain to help with the cost of soaring gas and electricity bills. The government, charities, consumer groups and energy suppliers are issuing a combined call for those eligible to claim the help they are entitled to, before the vouchers expire on 30 June.

The Asda chairman has warned of "unintended consequences" if the government asks supermarkets to impose price caps on basic food. Stuart Rose told the BBC any such move could be "counterproductive", and that shoppers face the possibility of missing out on better deals. His comments came as Asda agreed to buy the UK and Ireland business of petrol station giant EG Group for £2. 27bn. The deal will see Asda step up its growth in the convenience food sector. At the weekend it emerged that the government is in talks about asking supermarkets to cap prices on basic food items to help tackle the rising cost of living. Mr Rose told the BBC that UK food retailers were "already competing very heavily with each other to give our customers the best possible deal" and were "well ahead of what the government can offer"'

Singapore state-owned investment fund Temasek Holdings says it has cut the pay of staff responsible for its investment in cryptocurrency exchange FTX, which collapsed last year. In November, the fund wrote off all of the $275m (£222. 8m) it invested in FTX. Prosecutors have accused FTX's former chief executive Sam Bankman-Fried of orchestrating an "epic" fraud which may cost investors billions of dollars. Mr Bankman-Fried has pleaded not guilty to the charges. "The investment team and senior management, who are ultimately responsible for the investment decisions made, took collective accountability and had their compensation reduced," Temasek said in a statement on Monday. The sovereign wealth fund also said it was "disappointed with the outcome of our investment, and the negative impact on our reputation. "
Energy firms are making "war profits" from the surge in oil and gas prices following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the shadow chancellor has said. Rachel Reeves has told the BBC that companies should be "taxed properly". Last year, the government introduced a windfall tax on profits made from extracting oil and gas in the UK to help fund a scheme to lower bills. A Treasury spokesperson said the profits are being used to "ease pressure on families" in the UK. "These funds are being used to hold down people's energy bills and fund one of the most generous cost of living packages in the world- worth £94bn, which is around £3,300 per household this year and last," the spokesperson said. The Energy Profits Levy (EPL), introduced in May last year, is set at 35% and together with other taxes takes the rate on oil and gas companies to 75%.

There has been a second day of disruption for travellers at Heathrow after British Airways cancelled dozens more short-haul flights following Thursday's IT problems. BA said cancellations were still happening due to the "knock-on effect of a technical issue" resulting in staff being in the wrong location. A total of 175 flights have been axed, affecting more than 20,000 passengers. It comes on the busiest day for UK air travel since 2019. According to data firm Cirium, 83 BA flights, or around 8% of its planned Friday services, were cancelled. This followed the cancellation of 92 flights on Thursday, out of 860 that were scheduled. Most of the cancellations are for European and domestic flights, but there have also been delays to other services, while some passengers have been unable to check in online.
Wall Street giant JP Morgan Chase is cutting jobs at failed US lender First Republic Bank, after buying the firm this month. Around 1,000 roles, or 15%, of First Republic's workforce will be cut, the BBC understands. Also this week, First Citizens, which bought the US unit of another troubled lender, announced job cuts. Earlier this year, problems at US regional banks triggered fears about a more widespread crisis. JP Morgan confirmed that it was cutting roles that were held by workers at the San Francisco-based bank but did not put a figure on the job losses. The affected employees will receive pay and benefits for 60 days, along with a package which includes a lump sum payment and other benefits. JP Morgan also said it was assisting them with finding new roles within or outside the company.
Energy bills are set to remain high despite a cut in prices from July, experts have warned. A typical household will pay £2,074 a year for gas and electricity from July, £426 a year less than currently, after the regulator cut the energy price cap for England, Scotland and Wales. Government help in recent months has limited bills to £2,500. However, prices are not expected to fall much further over the rest of the year, and could edge up in winter. MoneySavingExpert's Martin Lewis said that later on in 2023 bills would be similar to last winter because, although prices are cheaper, households will not get the same £400 discount from the government they previously received. "People will still be paying double what they used to pay before the energy crisis hit," he added.
The new owner of Silicon Valley Bank's (SVB) US operations, First Citizens, is cutting around 500 roles held by former SVB workers, the BBC understands. Two months ago, First Citizens bought the business after SVB's collapse. The failure of SVB, along with two other US banks, triggered fears of a more widespread banking crisis, which forced authorities to step in. SVB's business in the UK was bought in March by London-headquartered banking giant HSBC for a nominal £1 ($1. 25). In an email seen by the BBC, First Citizens' chief executive Frank Holding highlighted the problems faced by SVB earlier this year and said the cuts will affect: "select SVB corporate functions and do not include any personnel in client-facing positions. " "The team in India that supports SVB is not impacted by the changes," he added. The BBC understands that the job cuts amount to around 3% of the company's total workforce.

UK homeowners and renters are facing a "huge income shock" as rising interest rates hit mortgages and monthly costs, the boss of Barclays has warned. CS Venkatakrishnan, who is known as Venkat, estimates that payments by mortgage holders and tenants will take a chunk of between 28% and 30% out of their income. He said that compares to an average 20% in previous years. The Bank of England has sharply raised interest rates to curb inflation. The typical UK mortgage is a two-year fixed-rate deal. The Barclays boss said that "most people will begin to feel the impact of higher rates when their current deal expires by the end of next year", and predicted "there is a huge income shock" on the way. Mr Venkat was speaking to a conference held by the Wall Street Journal. Around 85% of all mortgages are fixed-rate, according to the Bank of England.

Sir Richard Branson's rocket company Virgin Orbit has shut down, just months after a major mission failure. It comes weeks after the firm set up to launch satellites paused operations to try and boost its finances. It had been selling off items it owns in a bid to survive, including its converted jet Cosmic Girl, and most of its headquarters in California. In January, its first ever satellite mission in the UK reached space, but fell short of its target orbit. The mission was billed as a milestone for UK space exploration. It had been hoped the launch, called Start Me Up after the 1981 Rolling Stones hit, would turn the country into a global player - from manufacturing satellites to building rockets and creating new spaceports. But the rocket experienced an anomaly which "prematurely ended" the first burn and Sir Richard's space dream was all but over.

Netflix has started its long-promised crackdown on password sharing in major markets including the UK and the US. A Netflix subscription in the UK can cost anything between £4. 99 to £15. 99 per month. The streaming giant said it was notifying customers that they must pay an additional £4. 99 per month, or $7. 99 in the US, if they want to share their account outside their homes. The move is intended to boost subscribers. But in some countries where it has already been trialled, some are baulking at the expense. In Spain, when it started charging 5. 99 euros (£5. 27) for an additional account, it lost more than a million subscribers in the first three months of the year, according to Kantar.

A former builder has opened a barber shop in his back garden. David Hollick, 56, from Swadlincote, said he fancied a career change after 30 years in the building trade. He spent 11 months building and fitting out a shed in his back garden that now serves as a 1950s-style barber shop, complete with plumbing for a sink and toilet. He said: "I got bored and wanted a new challenge in life. For years, I've been saying I need to do something else. "

Climate protesters stormed Shell's annual shareholder meeting in London, with security having to step in to protect board members. Proceedings were delayed as the protesters, yelling "shut down Shell", ran to the front of the room where executives were sitting on stage. Some demonstrators had to be carried out of the building by security. Shell said protesters were not "interested in constructive engagement" as crowds continued to gather outside. In a statement, the energy giant said it was keen to underline it had a "clear target of net-zero emissions by 2050". However, campaign groups are looking to ramp up the pressure on Shell and other energy companies to bring forward those targets to absolute carbon emissions cuts by 2030 and focus more resources on renewables. But targets proposed by the campaigners were rejected in a vote by shareholders at the meeting.
The UK economy is expected to avoid a recession this year, the International Monetary Fund has said, after it sharply upgraded its growth forecast. It now expects the UK to grow by 0. 4% in 2023, whereas last month it forecast the economy would contract by 0. 3%. Growth would be helped by "resilient demand" and falling energy prices. But the IMF said inflation "remains stubbornly high" and that higher interest rates will need to remain in place if it is to be brought down. Speaking in London, the IMF's managing director Kristalina Georgieva said the upgraded growth figure had been sparked by falling energy prices, easing concerns over Brexit and improved financial stability. She added that the government had taken "decisive and responsible steps in recent months". But Ms Georgieva also said now was not the time to look at cutting taxes, warning that at the moment "neither is it affordable, nor is it desirable".

WhatsApp says it will allow users to edit messages, in a move that will see it match a feature offered by competitors like Telegram and Discord. The firm says messages can be edited for up to 15 minutes after being sent. The instant-messaging service is part of US technology giant Meta, which also owns Facebook and Instagram. The feature will made be available to WhatsApp's 2 billion users in the coming weeks. It counts India as its largest market, with 487 million users. "From correcting a simple misspelling to adding extra context to a message, we're excited to bring you more control over your chats," the messaging service said in a blog post on Monday. "All you need to do is long-press on a sent message and choose 'Edit' from the menu for up to fifteen minutes after," it added.

TikTok has sued to block the US state of Montana from banning residents from accessing its social media platform. Monday's lawsuit comes after last week Montana became the first US state to pass a sweeping ban on the Chinese-owned video-sharing platform. In a statement, TikTok said the ban conflicts with US free speech rights. TikTok has come under scrutiny from authorities around the world over concerns that data could be passed to the Chinese government. The lawsuit filed on Monday in the United States District Court for the District of Montana says it is suing to overturn the "unlawful" ban. "We are challenging Montana's unconstitutional TikTok ban to protect our business and the hundreds of thousands of TikTok users in Montana," a spokesperson said in a statement. "We believe our legal challenge will prevail based on an exceedingly strong set of precedents and facts. "
The Port of Dover's boss has said it has done "everything we can" to prevent travel delays over the upcoming bank holiday and school half-term break. Some coach passengers faced 15-hour delays to board ferries to France in the lead up to Easter. But Port of Dover chief executive Doug Bannister said it has since taken steps to stop traffic getting snarled up in post-Brexit border checks. Up to 5,500 cars and 350 coaches are expected at the port on Friday. "So it is quite a busy day," Mr Bannister told the BBC. Traffic control measures have already been put in place to manage the flow of lorries travelling to Dover on the M20. The Kent Resilience Forum, which manages emergency planning for the county, said: "The passenger forecasts from both Eurotunnel and the Port of Dover indicate an extremely busy period for cross-Channel traffic over the bank holiday weekend at the end of May.
It "absolutely makes sense" to be lenient with migration rules when firms face staff shortages, the former chief economist of the Bank of England says. Andy Haldane told the BBC the UK should be "liberal in our visa policies" to fill skills gaps, and that in turn would help to grow the economy. It comes after the prime minister said legal migration was too high. The Home Office said its system allowed in the skills needed while encouraging investment in the domestic workforce. Mr Haldane's comments come ahead of new figures on net migration to the UK due to be published this Thursday. While the prime minister has been facing pressure to deliver on a 2019 Conservative manifesto commitment to bring down levels of net migration, some businesses have warned it would damage their industries. Sectors such as hospitality and retail have been among those facing labour shortages.

Rail users could lose access to wi-fi on trains in England as part of cost cuts after the government said it was a low priority for passengers. The Department for Transport says cost pressures mean it will review whether the current wi-fi service "delivers the best possible value for money". But one rail expert criticised the move and said trains could lose custom as a result. Most operators currently offer free wi-fi as standard on their services. Transport officials cited a report from independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus, which they said showed passengers were more concerned about value for money, reliability and punctuality than access to wi-fi. "Our railways are currently not financially sustainable, and it is unfair to continue asking taxpayers to foot the bill, which is why reform of all aspects of the railways is essential," the Department for Transport (DfT) said.
Neeva, an advert- and tracker-free search engine founded by a former Google ad exec, says it will shut down. The search engine asked users to pay rather than be shown ads but struggled to attract subscribers. Recently, it also started showing artificial-intelligence-generated answers to searches. Now, the company says it is looking to build on the expertise it developed to provide those answers and is exploring other AI businesses opportunities. It will close on 2 June, it says, and users will be able to receive a refund for the unused portion of their subscriptions.

Budget airline Ryanair has reported its first profit since the pandemic as fares and passenger numbers rebounded. The carrier's profits hit €1. 43bn (£1. 24bn) in the year to March, with average fares up by 50% to €41. However, the airline warned its fuel costs were set to jump in the next year due to high oil prices. Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said current fares were "significantly" higher than a year ago, when demand was hit by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Aviation expert John Strickland, from JLS Consulting, told the BBC's Today programme that fares could increase even more, with a family of four seeing costs rise by "another £20 or £30".

The railway infrastructure in England and Wales is likely to become less reliable over the next five years, the body responsible for its upkeep has said. Network Rail looks after the tracks, bridges, tunnels, embankments and points that are crucial for trains to run safely. In its new business plan it says a sharp rise in extreme weather events has damaged ageing infrastructure. At the same time costs have risen. As a result, investment will need to be focused on areas that will "bring the highest economic and social benefits", Network Rail said. Chief executive Andrew Haines said that, given the constrained budget, funding would "need to go further than ever before".

Ed Sheeran, Adele and Harry Styles are among the UK's richest people under the age of 35, according to the Sunday Times Rich List. The musicians all have an estimated wealth of more than £150m after successes in the UK and US. But they are not quite moneyed enough to make the main Rich List where people must boast wealth of £350m or more. That includes UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and his wife Akshata Murthy, though their wealth has fallen. For those under 35, Ed Sheeran, 32, is ranked the seventh wealthiest with a fortune of £300m, helped by his fast-selling sixth album "Subtract". Adele, who is now 35, is in ninth place with £165m. The London-born singer has sold more than 100 million albums, and earlier this year she announced that her lavish Las Vegas residency would be extended. Reportedly, this pays £500,000 per show.

More than six million people with disabilities will receive their next cost-of-living payment between 20 June and 4 July, the government has said. The payment is designed to be a top-up to benefits to help ease the strain from higher bills and prices. Those with disabilities often have higher domestic energy costs, so receive the extra payment on top of other financial assistance. People on means-tested benefits and low incomes have received £301 recently. That payment went to people including those on universal credit and pension credit, and can include pensioners - who will receive a further £300 later in the year - and those with disabilities. The most vulnerable households can receive up to £1,350 in direct cost-of-living payments.

RMT members are to stage a fresh strike on 2 June in a long-running dispute over pay, jobs and working conditions. The strike will see 20,000 train managers, caterers and station staff all walk off the job. There will be three rail strikes within four days with Aslef train drivers walking out on 31 May and 3 June, the day of the FA Cup final. The government said the RMT had gone "out of their way" to make life difficult for thousands. The stoppages are also likely to cause disruption for many during the half term school break. The RMT said no new proposals had been put forward by the train companies since the union's last strike action on 13 May. General secretary Mick Lynch said the government was not allowing the Rail Delivery Group (RDG) to make an improved offer in the national dispute.

More than 100 staff at Seagate Technology in Londonderry are to be made redundant, BBC News NI understands. Speculation had been mounting for weeks that there would be job losses at the Springtown factory as part of a global restructuring operation by the company. It is believed 116 people will be affected, out of a total workforce of 1,400. Some managers had already been informed they are to take a pay cut of 10%. A spokesperson for Seagate said it was one of the most difficult decisions its management team had to make. The data storage company is one of the north west's biggest employers. Opened in 1993, the factory produces a tiny specialised part for hard drives called a recording head. Seagate said previously that it was in the middle of a global restructuring progress.

The party goods business started by the Princess of Wales's mother has been sold after falling into administration. Party Pieces was launched in 1987 when Carole Middleton was looking for inspiration for her daughter Kate's fifth birthday party. The business has been bought by entrepreneur James Sinclair for an undisclosed sum. The company was initially run from the four-bedroom family home in Bradfield, Berkshire. But after running into difficulties the mail order business was put into administration and immediately sold to the Teddy Tastic Bear Company, one of a number of companies owned by Mr Sinclair. It is understood the company's 12 employees will be transferred across to the new owner.

Supermarket chain Asda is considering whether to cut the pay of 7,000 staff in the south east of England to bring it in line with its other stores. Staff at 39 stores outside the M25 have been paid more for decades to offset a higher cost of living closer to London. A spokesperson said all Asda staff had recently been given a 10% pay rise to help with soaring inflation. The GMB union said Asda was set to fire workers who refused to agree to the new conditions. The union said the workers were already low-paid, and that planning to reduce pay during a cost-of-living crisis was "inexcusable". The workers get a so-called "location supplement" of 60p per hour, which Asda may scrap, and a night supplement that it wants to reduce, the GMB said. It added that those who do not agree to the pay reduction "could be dismissed if they refuse to sign" the new contract.
Telecoms giant BT is to shed up to 55,000 jobs by the end of the decade, mostly in the UK, as it cuts costs. Up to a fifth of those cuts will come in customer services as staff are replaced by technologies including artificial intelligence. The headcount reduction from the current workforce of 130,000 includes staff and contractors. "Whenever you get new technologies you can get big changes," said chief executive Philip Jansen. He said "generative AI" tools such as ChatGPT - which can write essays, scripts, poems, and solve computer coding in a human-like way - "gives us confidence we can go even further". Mr Jansen said AI would make services faster, better and more seamless, adding that the changes would not mean customers will "feel like they are dealing with robots". "We are multi-channel, we are online, we have 450 stores and that's not changing at all," he said.
Thousands of Ovo and Good Energy customers are to get a refund after the regulator found that the firms had overcharged households. Ofgem has ordered the energy firms to pay a total of £4m, £2. 7m of which will be split between 18,000 homes. The average repayment to affected Ovo customers will be £181, while Good Energy will refund £109. The regulator said the suppliers had charged people above the rate allowed under the two energy price caps. Dan Norton, deputy director of retail at Ofgem said: "It is totally unacceptable that Good Energy and Ovo Energy customers were overcharged, particularly at a time that is already so challenging and stressful for consumers across the UK. " Those customers who have been affected will be automatically refunded.
Food banks are having to buy groceries at high prices because donations fail to meet demand from families in need. The Trussell Trust said 13% of food in emergency parcels was bought, whereas before the pandemic it was all donated. Donations do not always match their most-needed items meaning charities have to buy more to cover shortages. But new software may be helping solve this problem, by telling people exactly which groceries and toiletries are running low in their local food bank. Paul McMurray, from North Shields, has created Donation Genie - a website that displays the items that are most needed at each specific food bank across the UK.
Deutsche Bank has agreed to pay $75m (£60m) to settle a lawsuit that claimed the lender had enabled Jeffrey Epstein's alleged sex trafficking ring. The case was filed by an unnamed woman who alleged that the banking giant continued to do business with Epstein, despite knowing that his accounts were used to facilitate the abuses. She also claimed that she was abused by Epstein and trafficked to his friends. Deutsche Bank declined to comment on the case when approached by the BBC. The woman, who is listed anonymously as "Jane Doe" in court papers, filed the class-action lawsuit in New York last November on behalf of herself and other women who had allegedly been abused by the late American financier. She said Deutsche Bank "chose profit over following the law" as it knew it would "earn millions of dollars from facilitating Epstein's sex trafficking". The woman also alleged that she was sexually abused by Epstein and trafficked to his friends for around 15 years, while receiving cash payments for her sexual acts.
Montana is set to become the first US state to ban Chinese-owned media giant TikTok from personal devices. Governor Greg Gianforte signed the ban into law on Wednesday. It is due to take effect on 1 January. The video-sharing platform says the ban "infringes on the First Amendment rights of the people of Montana". TikTok has come under scrutiny from authorities around the world over concerns that data could be passed to the Chinese government. Mr Gianforte, a Republican, told lawmakers that a wider ban would further "our shared priority to protect Montanans from Chinese Communist Party surveillance. " TikTok said in a statement that it was used by "hundreds of thousands of people" in Montana. "We want to reassure Montanans that they can continue using TikTok to express themselves, earn a living, and find community as we continue working to defend the rights of our users inside and outside of Montana," it added.
The "default" location for workers should be in the office unless there is a good reason to work from home, the Chancellor has suggested. Jeremy Hunt said while working remotely had produced "exciting opportunities", he was worried about "the loss of creativity" when it is permanent. "The default will be you work in the office unless there's a good reason not to be in the office," he said. Flexible working has become the norm for many workers since the pandemic. But there has been a split across different sectors since lockdown restrictions have been eased. Some firms told their staff they needed to return to the workplace, while others opted for so-called "hybrid" working patterns, where employees could come in to offices on certain days and work remotely on others.
Troubled online estate agent Purplebricks has agreed a deal to sell its business and assets to rival Strike, for the token sum of £1. Purplebricks' aim was to create a lower-cost, more flexible estate agent by charging house sellers a flat rate. But the UK firm, which was once valued at more than $1bn (£800m), put itself up for sale in February. It said the deal will lead to job losses, and that its boss will step down after the sale. The announcement sent its shares tumbling by around 40%. Over the past 18 months there have been a number of management reshuffles at the company, a restructure, and one of its shareholders called for the removal of its chairman, Paul Pindar. The company revealed in February that it expected to lose between £15-£20m this year. It said last week that it was in exclusive talks with Strike.
The number of adults struggling to pay their bills and debts has soared to nearly 11 million, new figures show. Some 3. 1 million more people faced difficulties in January than they did in May last year, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said. It found that 11% of adults had missed a bill or loan payment in at least three of the previous six months. The FCA encouraged people to ask for help as household budgets were squeezed by the rising cost of living. "Our research highlights the real impact the rising cost of living is having on people's ability to keep up with their bills, although we are pleased to see that people have been accessing help and advice," said Sheldon Mills, its executive director of consumers and competition. "We've told lenders that they should provide support tailored to your needs," he added.

The Bank of England's top economist has said he is sorry for using "inflammatory" language to suggest people must accept they are poorer. Huw Pill recently said people needed to stop asking for pay rises to keep up with soaring prices because this risked keeping inflation higher for longer. However, his remarks prompted criticism, including from his own boss. Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey said Mr Pill's "choice of words was not right". Mr Pill said: "If I had the chance again to use different words I would use somewhat different words to describe the challenges we all face. " He added: "Although we have some difficult messages to bring. I will try and bring those messages in a way that is perhaps less inflammatory than maybe I managed in the past. "

The number of people not working in the UK due to long-term sickness has risen to a new record, official figures show. More than two and a half million are not working due to health problems, the Office for National Statistics said. It blamed an increase in mental health issues in younger people and people suffering back and neck pain, possibly due to home working, for the rise. Typically, for every 13 people currently working, one person is long-term sick. Since the start of the Covid pandemic, there were "well over 400,000 more people outside of the labour market due to ill health," Darren Morgan, director of economic statistics at the ONS, told the BBC's Today Programme. As well as an increase in mental health conditions and back and neck pains, Mr Morgan said there had also been "an increase in the category that includes post-viral fatigue, so perhaps long Covid having an impact".
An ice cream parlour that renamed a product after a letter from Marks and Spencer said it "couldn't keep up" with the positive messages it had received. Fabio's Gelato, based in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, was asked not to use the name Percy Pig in its ice cream. Owner Fabio Vincenti said it was a case of two companies that "came together and came up with a good solution instead of arguing". "There wasn't any negativity, it was just well thought out," he said. Marks & Spencer said the Percy Pig name, which started life as a bag of sweets in 1992 but has since evolved to other ranges, could only be used on "official M&S products". Mr Vincenti posted a picture of the ice cream on social media last week and three days later he received a "polite and fair" letter from M&S asking for the name change.

Greggs says sales have gone up nearly a fifth compared to this time in 2022, saying its food remains "compelling" to customers in the cost-of-living crisis. The bakery chain, which opened its first shop in Newcastle in 1951, opened 63 new shops this year and extended some opening hours. The company said hot food like chicken goujons, wedges and pizza were popular, adding total sales were up 17% on 2022. But it said inflation and pressures on incomes remained challenging. It said though it was confident its "outstanding value proposition continues to be compelling". In the past year Greggs has opened the new shops but closed 25 franchises, leaving it now with more than 2,360 outlets. The rise in 2023 was partly because the beginning of last year was impacted by the Omicron variant of coronavirus, Greggs said.

Elon Musk has been subpoenaed by the US Virgin Islands in a lawsuit accusing a Wall Street bank of enabling Jeffrey Epstein to sex traffic women. It calls on the Tesla boss to hand over any documents showing communication between him, JP Morgan Chase bank and Epstein, who died in 2019. Mr Musk is not accused of any wrongdoing in the case. On Monday, he also reiterated denials of suggestions that Epstein had provided him with financial advice. Jeffrey Epstein died in jail in New York in 2019 while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. The Virgin Islands is suing JP Morgan Chase for allegedly helping enable Epstein's alleged crimes. Its case alleges trafficked women were sexually abused by Epstein and others on Little St. James, his private island in the territory. The Virgin Islands government has accused the bank of not acting on warning signs about the alleged crimes. The bank has denied the allegations.
UK holiday village chain Center Parcs has been put up for sale by its owner, the Canadian private equity firm Brookfield. The company is looking to raise between £4bn and £5bn from the sale according to the Financial Times. Brookfield bought the business for about £2. 4bn in 2015. Center Parcs runs six holiday villages in the UK and Ireland which attract more than two million visitors every year. They are particularly popular with families as they offer a range of activities on-site, with an indoor waterpark as the central attraction and wooden cabins set in cycle-friendly forests. The first UK location opened in 1987, at Sherwood Forest in Nottinghamshire. There are now holiday villages at Elveden Forest, Longleat Forest, Whinfell Forest and Woburn Forest.
The company behind the websites Vice and Motherboard has filed for bankruptcy in the US and is set to be sold to a group of its lenders. Vice Media Group - which was valued at $5. 7bn (£4. 5bn) in 2017 - could be taken over for $225m. The youth-focused digital publisher said it will continue to operate during the bankruptcy process. It added that it "expects to emerge as a financially healthy and stronger company in two to three months". Launched in 1994 as a fringe magazine called Voice of Montreal by Shane Smith, Gavin McInnes and Suroosh Alvi, Vice currently operates in more than 30 countries. It was once heralded as part of vanguard of companies set to disrupt the traditional media landscape with edgy, youth-focused content spanning print, events, music, online, TV and feature films.
An ice cream parlour has changed the name of one its products after a "polite" request from M&S. Fabio's Gelato, based in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, only began making its Percy Pig ice cream last week. But the retailing giant sent the owner Fabio Vincenti a letter which said he could continue to use the sweets, but not the name of the product. "It is what it is, they've got to protect Percy Pig," he said. Marks & Spencer said the name of Percy Pig, which started life as a bag of sweets in 1992 but has since evolved to other ranges, could only be used on "official M&S products".
A company that supplies airbag parts to about one-quarter of US vehicles has rejected a request to recall  67 million defective product. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said ARC Automotive's airbag inflators had ruptured and caused injury on several occasions due to a safety defect. It urged the parts maker to immediately withdraw 67 million of its inflators. ARC replied that the agency's findings did not support a large-scale recall. Concerns over airbag inflators that explode and hurl shrapnel at passengers have long plagued the motor industry. ARC's products are used by several top car makers, including BMW, General Motors, Hyundai and Kia.
Royal Mail boss Simon Thompson is to step down from his role, the owner of the postal giant has said. Mr Thompson said he believed it was the "right time" to go after Royal Mail and the main postal union struck a deal that could end a long-running dispute. He has had a difficult two years in charge of the firm. Mr Thompson had come under pressure after he was accused of misleading MPs when he denied Royal Mail tracked workers' productivity. He will remain in post until the end of October, and the board is in "advanced stages" of appointing a new chief executive, it said. There were reports that Mr Thompson had become "increasingly disillusioned" during strike action by members of the Communication Workers Union (CWU). It is believed leaders of Royal Mail's parent company, International Distributions Services, also wanted fresh leadership at the firm after the dispute over pay and conditions.

The cost of hiring a car on a summer holiday has increased significantly since the pandemic, research suggests. Consumer group Which? said holidaymakers travelling to some of the most popular destinations were paying 77% more than in 2019. It said high demand and depleted stocks were to blame and warned customers often got stung by hidden charges. A trade body said car hire firms faced the same inflationary pressures as other parts of the economy. Although higher than a few years ago, prices were down slightly on last year. Which? analysed data on 8,000 week-long car rentals from broker Zest during the month of August. It looked at destinations including Cyprus, France, Greece, Italy, Malta, Portugal, Spain and the US. It also included car hire prices in the UK.
Around 400 jobs could be lost at an international veterinary services firm near Bristol. IVC Evidensia, which runs 2,600 vet clinics and out-of-hours centres across 20 countries, has 1,100 operational staff at its Keynsham headquarters. The company, which was set up 12 years ago, is based in the Chocolate Factory in Keynsham - the site of the former Cadbury factory. The company said it was "considering outsourcing financial services".

Buyers and banks need to be "very careful" with 100% mortgages that have no deposit requirement, the Bank of England has warned. Andrew Bailey, its governor, said "quite a few problems" could arise from such deals which some see as riskier. This week Skipton Building Society became the latest lender to offer a deposit-free mortgage aimed at first-time buyers currently renting. Mr Bailey's warning came after the Bank raised interest rates again. The increase - from 4. 25% to 4. 5% - was the 12th in a row, and means some mortgage holders will see an immediate increase in their repayments. The Bank has been trying to control inflation - the rate at which prices rise - which is currently near a 40-year high and putting pressure on families.
TransPennine Express will be nationalised after customer complaints of poor service and cancelled trains. The government will now run the service which covers Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds in the north of England and runs to Edinburgh and Glasgow in Scotland. Passengers will see no change to the service but the overall aim is to improve its performance. In January and February about a quarter of its services were cancelled, which was the highest rate in the UK. That improved to around one in six in March, but it was still the worst-performing train operator in terms of cancellations. The Department for Transport said that TransPennine's contract would not be renewed on 28 May.
Disney has announced plans to combine content from its Disney+ and Hulu streaming services in the US. The move comes after Disney+ lost four million subscribers in the first three months of the year, and the firm is under pressure to make its streaming business profitable. The home of Mickey Mouse, Star Wars and Marvel movies intends to link Hulu and Disney+ into a "one-app experience". Plans for the app have met with a mixed reaction from current subscribers. Some voiced fears on social media that it would lead to higher subscription fees when it goes live at the end of the year. However, the company said that Disney+ and Hulu, as well as its ESPN+ platform, would also continue to be available as standalone services. Hulu, jointly owned by Disney and NBCUniversal, is known for television shows pitched at adults, such as The Handmaid's Tale.
India's imports of Russian oil rose tenfold last year, according to Indian state-controlled lender Bank of Baroda. The figures show Asia's third largest economy saved around $5bn (£4bn) as it ramped up crude purchases from Moscow. It comes as Western countries have been cutting their imports of energy from Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. Russia has been selling energy at a discount to countries like China and India, which is the world's third largest importer of oil. In 2021 Russian oil accounted for just 2% of India's annual crude imports. That figure now stands at almost 20%, Bank of Baroda said. India's purchases of oil from Russia during the last financial year, saved it around $89 per tonne of crude, the figures show. Despite pressure from the US and Europe, India has refused to adhere to Western sanctions on Russian imports. New Delhi has also not explicitly condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
People in the UK lost £1. 2bn to fraud in 2022, the equivalent of £2,300 every minute, according to bank industry group UK Finance. It said around three million scams took place - slightly less than the previous year - with frauds involving payment cards being the most common. UK Finance said losses were not always reimbursed and urged tech firms to "share the burden" of covering costs. Ministers say they will get tougher on scams as part of a national strategy. Fraud is now the most common crime in the UK, with one in 15 people falling victim. According to UK Finance, the amount of money stolen in 2022 was actually 8% less than in 2021, and fraud cases were down 4% - but there were still nearly three million cases across the UK in total. It said the most common type of fraud after card fraud was scams involving purchases.
Tesco, Aldi and Lidl have followed Sainsbury's by cutting the price of own-brand butter and bread after criticism over high supermarket prices. The supermarkets have all reduced its salted and unsalted butter prices from £1. 99 to £1. 89 for 250g packets. Wholesale food prices have been falling globally, but UK food inflation is at its highest for 45 years. The move comes after criticism supermarkets are not passing on wholesale price falls quickly enough. Inflation was expected to fall below 10% last month, but soaring food prices meant it fell by less than expected. Last month the Office for National Statistics - which measures the rate of prices increases - told the BBC you would expect to see global food price falls reflected in supermarkets "but we're not there yet".
Asos, the online fashion retailer, has reported large losses after shoppers cut back on spending and the cost of living squeezes household budgets. The firm, which owns Topshop, posted a loss of £87. 4m in the six months to the end of February, compared to a profit of £14. 8m in the same period last year. It said trading had been "very challenging" with sales down 10% in the UK and 7% in the US. But Asos said it was confident it would return a profit in the next six months. The group, which announced a major restructure in October last year, had previously said it expected to make losses, in part due to having to cut prices to clear stock.
A deposit-free mortgage specifically aimed at people currently renting has been launched by a UK building society. While a handful of other no-deposit deals are available, they all need the financial backing of family or friends. Skipton Building Society says while its deal requires 12 months of on-time rental payments and a good credit history, it does not need a guarantor. However, at 5. 49% the interest rate is more expensive than the average five-year fix of 5%. Generation Rent, which campaigns on behalf of private renters, says the shortage of affordable properties within the budget of first-time buyers is still the main stumbling block for those struggling to get on the property ladder. "It's not necessarily going to help all the people who are looking to buy a first-time home if there aren't more houses available to buy," says Will Barber Taylor from Generation Rent.

Low-income pensioners entitled to pension credit are being urged to claim it or risk missing out on an extra cost-of-living payment. The government says those making a new claim in the next 10 days could get a cost-of-living payment worth £301. Hundreds of thousands of people who are eligible for pension credit do not claim it. This means they do not receive a top-up of the state pension, as well as other payments and discounts. Pensions Minister Laura Trott said: "Pension credit can make a real difference and I am determined to make sure this support - worth an average of £3,500 a year - is reaching everyone who needs it, particularly as we know how much pressure households across the country have been under. "Please check if you or your loved ones can claim for this extra support. "

LinkedIn has become the latest tech firm to axe jobs, closing 700 roles out of a 20,000 workforce. The social media network which focuses on business professionals will also phase out its local jobs app in China. In a letter by the company's chief executive Ryan Roslansky, he said the move was aimed at streamlining the firm's operations. In the last six months, firms including Amazon, LinkedIn's parent Microsoft, and Alphabet have announced layoffs. "With the market and customer demand fluctuating more, and to serve emerging and growth markets more effectively, we are expanding the use of vendors," Mr Roslansky wrote. He also said the changes would result in creating 250 new jobs which employees affected by the cuts in its sales, operations and support teams would be eligible to apply. After mostly withdrawing from China in 2021, citing a "challenging environment", the remaining app called InCareers will also be phased out by 9 August. InCareers only covers the Chinese market.
Tata Steel has warned that the finances of its UK business face "material uncertainty" given market conditions and the level of government support. Tata said a stress-test of its European arm to assess the impact of a downturn had flagged concerns for the UK unit. However, Tata Steel UK said it expected trading to pick up later this year. The Department for Business said the government is providing support to protect the steel industry from "unfair trade and energy costs". The UK business of India's Tata Steel employs about 8,000 people, with half at the Port Talbot steelworks in Wales. In results published last week, Tata said that earnings at Tata Steel Europe - which includes the UK business - fell by more than 60% in the year to 31 March.
HSBC has fought off an attempt by its biggest shareholder to break up the bank during a frequently tense annual general meeting. Chinese insurer Ping An has been trying for more than a year to split the bank. On Friday it failed to gain the backing of any other major shareholder as investors voted to reject the proposal. HSBC chairman Mark Tucker said the result "draws a line" under a long-running debate about the bank's structure. Despite being headquartered in London, the large majority of HSBC's profits are made in Asia. Ping An, which holds an 8% stake in HSBC, wants the lender to separate out its Asian business. It argues that the bank's profitable Asia operations are subsidising other parts of the bank that are not performing as strongly. Splitting HSBC would also set it free from the requirements of UK regulators.

Job creation in the US remained robust last month, despite turmoil in the banking sector and the impact of higher borrowing costs. Employers added 253,000 jobs, which was better than many analysts had expected. The unemployment rate fell to 3. 4%, returning to a multi-decade low. The gains were a reminder of the resilience of the US labour market, which has held up in the face of aggressive efforts by the US central bank to cool the economy. The Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate from near zero to between 5% and 5. 25% in little over a year, an abrupt shift aimed at curbing prices that were soaring last year at the fastest pace in decades. These increases have sharply increased the cost of buying a home or car, as well as making it more expensive to borrow to expand a business or take on other debt. In theory, that should reduce demand, leading the economy to slow and easing the pressures pushing up prices.

The last bank in a south Essex town is set to close in August. Lloyds Banking Group announced it would shut its branch on Grover Walk, Corringham on 21 August, leaving the East Thurrock area without a bank. It said the rise of internet banking meant fewer customers were using High Street branches. The group had previously announced the closure of 18 Halifax sites and 22 Lloyds sites across the country between April and June. According to Lloyds, transactions at the Corringham branch fell by 64% between 2017 and 2022. The group said 79% of their customers used other forms of banking, including via the phone or internet, or visited other branches. Lloyds Bank said it was contacting customers to inform them about alternate local banking services. These included the post office and local cash machines, as well as branches in nearby areas.

Images showing how a new entertainment venue could look have been revealed. Plans for the Stack entertainment venue in Bishop Auckland, County Durham, were approved in March. They involve demolishing the former butcher’s shop and WH Smith store in the town's main shopping street and building a "social hub", housing bars and street food vendors. Stack chief executive Neill Winch said he hoped the images gave "a real flavour" of what to expect. Demolition work is due to begin soon for the development, which aims to offer live entertainment and a space for local businesses. The venue will boost the local economy and will open in spring next year, its owner said.

US bank shares have dropped sharply as a crisis of confidence in the country's banking sector continues. Investors, reeling from the most serious string of banking failures to hit the US since 2008, are fleeing smaller lenders seen as at risk of falling next. Shares in California-based PacWest plunged 50%, while Western Alliance also tumbled nearly 40%. The US Treasury Department said it was monitoring developments "closely". "The banking system has substantial liquidity and deposit flows are stable," an official said. Shares in regional banks have been pummelled since March, when the failure of Silicon Valley Bank - then the country's 16th largest lender - ignited concerns about how the industry will adjust to the steep rise in interest rates that started last year. Investors sold off banking shares and customers rapidly started shifting funds to larger banks seen as safer, prompting the collapse of Signature Bank a few days later and First Republic this week.

Sales of new cars in Northern Ireland continued to recover in April according to industry data. Figures from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) show there were 3,432 sales, up 6. 8% on the same month in 2022. So far this year 16,750 new cars have been sold in Northern Ireland, up 17. 4% compared to the same period last year. The most popular models this year are the Hyundai Tucson and Ford's Fiesta and Puma. In the last couple of years the new car market was badly hit by supply chain problems, which delayed the delivery of vehicles.
The UK is set to review the AI market to make sure its benefits are available for everyone and that no single firm will dominate. The investigation by the competition watchdog will look at the software behind chatbots like ChatGPT. The industry is facing scrutiny over the pace at which it is developing technology to mimic human behaviour. AI's rapid take-up has sparked fears of job losses, privacy and the potential to circulate misleading information. Sarah Cardell, chief executive of the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), said so-called foundation models such as the software behind ChatGPT had the potential to "transform the way businesses compete as well as drive substantial economic growth".
Oil and gas giant Shell has reported a stronger than expected profit of $9. 6bn (£7. 6bn) for the first three months of the year. The figure was higher than the same period last year despite a slide in energy prices. Fossil fuel firms have been reaping record profits due to a surge in oil and gas prices following Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year. However, they have since fallen from the post-invasion peaks. Shell chief executive Wael Sawan said the company had delivered "strong results and robust operational performance, against a backdrop of ongoing volatility". The company also said it would be returning $4bn to shareholders, by buying back some its shares over the next three months.

China's domestic tourism rebounded above pre-pandemic levels during the five-day May Day break. Tourists made 274m trips within the country during the holiday period, China's Ministry of Tourism says. That was almost 20% higher than in 2019, before the outbreak of Covid-19 triggered lockdowns across the country. Official figures also show that tourists spent $21bn (£16. 7bn) during the period, more than twice the amount seen the same time last year. "This can be seen as a turning point of China's tourism sector. The market performance has truly returned to its 2019 level," Dai Bin, president of the China Tourism Academy told the official state news agency Xinhua. The May Day break, which ended on Wednesday, is one of China's most important national holidays. Travel and spending during the period was closely watched for indicators of the strength, or otherwise, of the post-pandemic recovery of the world's second largest economy.

The UK is to ban all cold calls selling financial products as part of a national crackdown on scams. Unsolicited calls offering any financial product will be covered by the ban, with a view to stopping fraudsters selling sham insurance products or cryptocurrency schemes. A new fraud squad will also be set up with 500 staff, up from 120 now. But Labour and the Liberal Democrats called the plans "too little, too late". Fraud is now the most common crime in the UK, with one in 15 people falling victim. Last summer, 41 million people were targeted by suspicious calls and texts, according to media regulator Ofcom. However, most fraud now has an online element, data suggests. The government said the blanket ban on cold calls selling financial products would cover legitimate calls as well. This will mean that "anyone who receives a call trying to sell them products such as cryptocurrency schemes or insurance will know it's a scam", it said.

Indian budget airline Go First has cancelled all of its flights for the next three days after filing for bankruptcy protection. The carrier says "a full refund will be issued" to affected customers. It is the first major airline in the country to file for bankruptcy since Jet Airways went bust in 2019. Go First blamed US engine maker Pratt & Whitney for previously having to ground many of its planes, which it says caused a severe cash flow problem. The company "had to take this step due to the ever-increasing number of failing engines supplied by Pratt & Whitney," Go First said in a statement. Go First said that the problem forced it to ground 25 aircraft - about half of its fleet of Airbus A320neo planes - which caused about 108bn rupees (£1bn; $1. 3bn) in lost revenue and expenses. The airline also accused Pratt & Whitney of not following an order by an emergency arbitrator, which included supplying "at least 10 serviceable spare leased engines by 27 April 2023".
The UK's financial watchdog has announced plans to shake up its rules in a bid to attract more companies to list shares on UK stock markets. It comes after British tech firm Arm and other businesses have shunned the UK and chosen to list in the US. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said its proposals would simplify regulations to make the UK "more competitive" with stock markets abroad. But there are concerns the changes could erode shareholders' rights. Arm's decision to list in the US raised concerns over the attractiveness the UK's stock markets. The Cambridge-based firm, which designs microchips, is reportedly aiming to raise up to $10bn (£8bn). Hermann Hauser, who pioneered Arm's technology whilst at Acorn computers, told the BBC this week that the New York stock exchange was "much deeper" than London's while Brexit had harmed the UK's image as place to do business.

The owner of the dating apps Tinder and Hinge has announced it will stop operating in Russia, more than a year after the war in Ukraine broke out. Match Group said its brands were taking steps to "restrict access" to services and would withdraw from the Russian market completely by 30 June. The move comes after many global companies cut ties with Russia after the invasion in February 2022. The BBC has approached Match Group for comment. The US company made the announcement in its annual report on Tuesday, adding that it was "committed to protecting human rights". In the immediate weeks after Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, many businesses, largely Western firms, announced they were suspending activities in Russia, or withdrawing from the country altogether. As pressure from consumers grew, McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Starbucks and Heineken announced they were cutting ties.

Oil and gas giant BP has reported strong profits for the beginning of the year as energy prices remain high. Profits hit $5bn (£4bn) in the first three months of the year, although this was down from $6. 2bn last year with oil prices having fallen from the peak seen after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Bumper profits from energy firms have led to calls for them to pay more tax with households facing high bills. Labour and the Liberal Democrats called for changes to the windfall tax. Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer called for a "proper" windfall tax on energy profits. "Of course we want BP and others to make profits so they can invest but these are profits that they didn't expect to make, these are profits that are over and above because the world price of energy is so high," he told BBC Breakfast.

UK house prices rose by 0. 5% in April after seven consecutive months of falls, according to the Nationwide building society. Economists had been expecting average prices to decrease during the month. Prices had been falling since August last year, after Liz Truss's mini-budget sparked turmoil on financial markets and drove up borrowing costs. Nationwide is predicting a "modest recovery" in the housing market as mortgage rates start to come down. But it said any improvement would be "fairly pedestrian", as household finances remain under pressure and average earnings have been failing to keep pace with inflation. The cost of an average home rose by 0. 5% between March and April to hit £260,441, said the lender, which bases the findings on its mortgage data. However, that was still 2. 7% lower than a year ago.
India's domestic air traffic has hit a record high, with 456,000 passengers flying on a single day. The milestone, which was reached on 30 April, came as 2,978 flights took off across the country. "The skyrocketing domestic passenger traffic post Covid is a reflection of India's high growth," aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted. India's post-pandemic economic recovery has spurred a travel boom. More than 37. 5m passengers were carried by domestic airlines in just the first three months of 2023. This marked a 51. 7% growth compared to a year ago, data from the country's Directorate General of Civil Aviation showed. "There was no growth for two years during Covid. What we are witnessing now is a snowballing of that pent-up demand," Mark Martin, an aviation analyst, told the BBC. There has also been a significant increase in the number of first-time flyers since the pandemic, according to Mr Martin.
A group of US lawmakers has called for Chinese fast fashion brand Shein to be investigated over claims that Uyghur forced labour is used to make some of the clothes it sells. The letter to the Wall Street watchdog comes amid expectations the firm may sell its shares in the US. "We have zero tolerance for forced labour," Shein told the BBC. The company also said that it currently has no plans for a listing on Wall Street. The letter, which was signed by two dozen Republican and Democrat lawmakers, cited "credible allegations of utilising underpaid and forced labour". It also called on the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to force Shein to independently audit and verify "that the company does not use Uyghur forced labour", before it was allowed to sell shares in the US. In response to the letter, Shein told the BBC: "We are committed to respecting human rights and adhering to local laws and regulations in each market we operate in. "

JP Morgan Chase has taken over the troubled US bank First Republic in a deal brokered by regulators. The Wall Street giant said it would pay $10. 6bn (£8. 5bn) to the Federal Insurance Deposit Corp (FIDC), after officials shut down the smaller bank. First Republic had been under pressure since last month, when the collapse of two other US lenders sparked fears about the state of the banking system. Authorities said they hoped the deal would resolve the panic. The failure of San Francisco-based First Republic is the second-largest in US history and the third in the country since March. Worth more than $20bn at the beginning of last month, the bank was known for its big home loan business and for its stable of wealthy clients. It was ranked as the 14th largest lender in the US at the end of last year. The bank's 84 offices in eight states reopened on Monday as branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank after regulators seized control and sold it to the Wall Street institution.

Adidas is being sued by investors who claim the firm knew about Kanye West's problematic behaviour years before it ended their partnership. Investors allege Adidas failed to limit financial losses and take precautionary measures to minimise their exposure. The sportswear giant ended its collaboration with the designer and rapper, who is known as Ye, last year following antisemitic comments. In response, Adidas said: "We outright reject these unfounded claims. " It added it "will take all necessary measures to vigorously defend ourselves against them". West is not party to the lawsuit. The rapper designed a line of hugely successful trainers under the Yeezy brand for Adidas. Since then, Adidas admitted that it could lose up to €700m (£619m) after being left with hundreds of millions of euros worth of unsold Yeezy products. Last October, when the company ended the collaboration, it said: "Adidas does not tolerate antisemitism and any other sort of hate speech.

A new leisure venue constructed from shipping containers is to open in Newcastle after plans for the permanent site were approved. The complex, called Frate, will open on 26 May behind Grey Street. Bosses said it would bring together "the best of local and independent food, drink, art and music" and create about 35 jobs. It will also hold pop-up events including fayres, exercise classes and an open-air cinema. Plans for the outdoor venue were approved by Newcastle City Council last year. It comes almost a year after the container box entertainment venue Stack Newcastle closed to make way for new government offices. The former venue on Pilgrim Street was dismantled and plans to temporarily revive it behind Central Station were scrapped in November following objections from nearby businesses.
The UK games sector was in favour of Microsoft's bid for US firm Activision being approved, according to the man who led the company behind Tomb Raider. Sir Ian Livingstone, also co-founder of Games Workshop, said it would be "odd" if the UK was the only place to object. The blocking of the deal by the UK regulator provoked a furious response from Microsoft, with its president saying the move was "bad for Britain". The UK's move means the multi-billion dollar deal cannot go ahead globally. The planned $68. 7bn (£55bn) deal would have been the gaming industry's biggest ever takeover, and Microsoft would have taken ownership of popular games titles such as Call of Duty, Candy Crush and World of Warcraft. US and EU regulators have yet to decide on whether to approve the deal, but on Wednesday the UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) blocked it, saying it was concerned the deal would offer reduced innovation and less choice for gamers in the fast-growing cloud gaming business.

Average rents have continued to hit new highs, according to property website Rightmove, as the shortage of available properties continues. Asking rents outside London have reached a record of £1,190 a month on average, Rightmove said, while in London they have risen above £2,500. Rents have been pushed up by fierce competition among tenants chasing a limited number of homes to rent. Rightmove said there were signs of more properties coming on to the market. However, while the number of properties available to rent between January and March was up 8% from a year earlier, the number was still nearly half that seen in 2019. The gap between the number of tenants seeking properties and the homes available to rent also narrowed, Rightmove said, but it still remained "near record levels". It added that average asking rents for new tenants outside London have now risen for 13 consecutive quarters.

Sri Lanka's central bank has laid out the extent of the country's worst economic crisis in more than 70 years. In its annual report, the bank outlined how last year wages failed to keep up with the soaring cost of everything from food to fuel. "Several inherent weaknesses" and "policy lapses" helped to trigger the severe economic problems that engulfed the South Asian nation, the bank says. The bank now expects the economy to return to growth next year. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka forecast the economy will shrink by 2% this year, but expand by 3. 3% in 2024. The prediction is more optimistic than the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which forecast a contraction in 2023 of around 3% and growth of 1. 5% next year. The central bank's report also outlined how headline inflation reached almost 70% in September as prices of fresh fruit, wheat and eggs more than doubled. At the same time the cost of transportation and essential utilities such as electricity and water rose even faster.

The Port of Aberdeen will invest £55m over the next 10 years in a bid to become the UK's first net zero port by 2040, it has been announced. The aim is to reduce emissions and promote low carbon alternative fuels. The port said it had already taken action to reduce the environmental impact of its operations on quaysides, such as electric vehicles and installation of LED lighting. Future plans include trials of treated vegetable oil for port-owned vessels. The launch of the Port of Aberdeen's net zero strategy has the aim of delivering the UK's first net zero port, according to its chief executive Bob Sanguinetti.
The US economy slowed in the first three months of the year, as businesses reduced investments in the face of higher borrowing costs. The economy grew 1. 1% on an annualised basis, the Commerce Department said. That was down from a rate of 2. 6% in the prior quarter, despite strong consumer spending. Analysts are watching nervously to see how the world's largest economy handles a mix of higher interest rates and rising prices. The latest report on gross domestic product - the widest measure of economic activity - showed the economy has now grown for three quarters in a row. The US economy had contracted in the first half of last year as trade flows adjusted from the pandemic and higher borrowing costs led to a sharp slowdown in home sales. But a strong job market has kept consumer spending - the main driver of economic activity - resilient, despite rising living costs, helping to defy predictions of a recession.

Train drivers are set to strike again, including on the day of the FA Cup final, as part of a long-running row over pay, the Aslef union says. As well as striking on 3 June, members will walk out on 12 May and 31 May. It comes after the union rejected a fresh offer from 16 train firms, including a 4% pay rise for two years in a row and changes to conditions. The organisation which represents train companies said the walkouts were "totally unnecessary". The action is expected to cause major disruption across large parts of the country's railways, with some 13,000 drivers striking over the three days. The first day of strike action on 12 May is the day before the Eurovision Song Contest final in Liverpool. The government said the strike would affect Ukrainians trying to get to the event, with the UK hosting on behalf of Ukraine due to the war. On 3 June, thousands of football fans are set to travel to Wembley Stadium in London as Manchester United take on their rivals Manchester City in the FA Cup final.

Japanese brewer Kirin has agreed to buy Australian vitamins maker Blackmores for A$1. 88bn ($1. 24bn; £999. 4m). The move comes as Kirin expands into healthcare in the face of shrinking beer sales in its home country and increasing regulation of alcohol. "The acquisition of Blackmores is highly complementary to our existing Health Science business," it said. The deal also gives Blackmores an exit as it has been struggling to recover sales since the pandemic. Before Covid-19, the Australian natural health firm benefited from the practice of "daigou", in which Chinese consumers bought goods abroad to take back to China. "The Kirin Scheme represents an attractive, all-cash transaction," the chair of Blackmores, Wendy Stops, said.
People who have flexibly withdrawn pension savings have collectively, temporarily, overpaid more than £1bn in tax, new figures show. Pensioners are initially charged an emergency tax code after taking money from their pension pot, before having to wait for a refund from HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Another £160m was repaid last year, so the total since 2015 has topped £1bn. Pensions experts have called for the system to be reformed. "This is an absolute disgrace. A system based on systematic over-taxing of pension savers cannot be right," said Sir Steve Webb, a former pensions minister and now a partner at consultants LCP. "There is no good reason why citizens who access their pension should have to go through the hassle of claiming back excess taxation which they should never have had to pay in the first place. "
Pret A Manger has hiked the price of its five-a-day coffee subscription service by 20% to £30 a month. The sandwich and coffee chain said the new deal would also entitle customers to 10% off every item of food or drink sold in its outlets. Pret a Manger launched the subscription in September 2020 after sales plunged during Covid lockdowns. On Wednesday it told subscribers the rise was down to the jump in the cost of ingredients, pay and energy. According to latest figures, inflation - the increase in the price of something over time - was 10. 1% in the year to March. However, prices of food and non-alcoholic drinks jumped 19. 1% in March, the biggest rise since August 1977. Last month, Pret announced it was giving staff struggling with the high cost of living their third pay rise in a year, amounting to an increase of 19% in year-on-year pay for shop staff.
The boss of a major UK manufacturing firm has told the BBC he is considering moving investment to the US or Europe due to new subsidies offered there. John Neil, who runs parts and logistics giant Unipart, said he wanted to invest in Britain but UK companies could not "compete on a level playing field". The US is spending billions to help electric car firms, green energy and microchips via loans and tax breaks. Europe is also planning to ease state help rules for firms in green sectors. But the UK has yet to announce its strategy, with the chancellor telling the BBC that he would wait to see what the EU did before making any decisions. Based in Oxford and employing more than 8,000 people, Unipart makes vehicle parts, components and manages supply chain logistics.
Shares in First Republic have tumbled nearly 50% as investors question its future. The falls came a day after the mid-size US bank said customers had pulled more than $100bn (£80bn) from their accounts amid last month's banking panic. First Republic had been seen as one of the banks most at risk of failure, after a series of bank collapses raised fears of a crisis in the sector. It was stabilised by a multi-billion dollar rescue deal. The firm's update provided a glimpse of how quickly the concerns spread. The bank said it lost roughly 40% of its deposits in the days following those collapses, as customers rushed to withdraw funds. It ended March with roughly $104bn in deposits, including $30bn it received from other banks in a rescue plan aimed at shoring up confidence. First Republic said the situation had since stabilised.
KitKat maker Nestle has hiked the prices of its products by almost 10% in the past year to offset a "significant" rise in costs but Despite the increases, the world's biggest food firm still saw sales rise in the first three months of 2023. It comes as UK shoppers continue to search for cheaper supermarket food. Research firm Kantar said the squeeze on household budgets had led to more people turning to discount chains such as Aldi and Lidl. The rate of grocery price increases slowed slightly in April, but consumers are still paying 17. 3% more than this time last year, Kantar said. But just because the inflation rate dipped, it does not mean prices are lower, it means they are not increasing as fast. Many households are feeling the impact of rising prices in recent months, and inflation is also hitting the margins of businesses.
The government borrowed less than expected last year, despite spending heavily on helping with energy bills and facing higher borrowing costs. Borrowing, the difference between spending and tax income, was estimated at £139. 2bn in the year to 31 March. That was less than had been predicted and gives ministers "wiggle room" for possible tax cuts ahead of the next election, one analyst said. The chancellor said the government was still borrowing "eye-watering sums". The amount borrowed last year was equivalent to 5. 5% of the value of the UK economy - the highest percentage since 2014, excluding the pandemic. However, the borrowing figure was lower than the £152bn predicted by the government's forecaster, the Office for Budget Responsibility, at the time of the Budget last month.
NBCUniversal chief executive Jeff Shell has left the US media and entertainment giant following an allegation against him of sexual harassment, its parent company has said. His departure comes after an outside firm conducted an investigation over a complaint about Mr Shell's conduct. The network's parent company Comcast initially said he was let go over an "inappropriate relationship". The executive has apologised following his removal. "I had an inappropriate relationship with a woman in the company, which I deeply regret," Mr Shell said in a statement. "I'm truly sorry I let my Comcast and NBCUniversal colleagues down. " Comcast has not yet said who will be the new NBCUniversal boss. The parent company said in a statement on Sunday that it had "mutually agreed that Mr Shell will depart effective immediately" following the investigation into his alleged conduct.
The UK's biggest business group has admitted it hired "culturally toxic" staff and failed to fire people who sexually harassed female colleagues. The CBI said a failure to act allowed a "very small minority" of staff to believe they could get away with harassment or violence against women. The embattled lobby group said it has now dismissed a number of people. The CBI was responding to an independent law firm report on misconduct allegations including rape. In an emotional letter to members, the business lobby group - which claims to represent 190,000 firms - admitted to a series of failings and said it had made mistakes "that led to terrible consequences". It said there was a collective "sense
Walt Disney Co has begun a second round of layoffs as part of an earlier announced restructuring expected to result in 7,000 job losses. The media giant has been under pressure as its traditional television and film business shrinks, while its streaming unit continues to post big losses. Chief executive Bob Iger announced the $5. 5bn cost-cutting drive in February. This week's cuts are expected to bringing the total number of reductions so far to 4,000. The losses will fall across the company, including at sports channel ESPN and film studios. The firm has said frontline workers at the park are not expected to be affected. "The difficult reality of many colleagues and friends leaving Disney is not something we take lightly," Disney officials said. The redundancies are indicative of a larger retrenching across the entertainment industry, as executives refocus on profits, after years in which many traditional media firms spent heavily to launch streaming platforms and win subscribers.
The UK's biggest business group has admitted it hired "culturally toxic" staff and failed to fire people who sexually harassed female colleagues. The CBI said a failure to act allowed a "very small minority" of staff to believe they could get away with harassment or violence against women. The embattled lobby group said it has now dismissed a number of people. The CBI was responding to an independent law firm report on misconduct allegations including rape. In an emotional letter to members, the business lobby group - which claims to represent 190,000 firms - admitted to a series of failings and said it had made mistakes "that led to terrible consequences". It said there was a collective "sense of shame" at "so badly having let down the. . . people who came to work at the CBI".
Italian restaurant chain Prezzo will shut a third of its restaurants after being hit by rising costs for pizza and pasta ingredients and energy. The group said closing the 46 loss-making sites will put 810 staff at risk of redundancy. It said its utility bills had more than doubled in the past year along with sharp rises in costs for dough balls, pizza sauce, mozzarella and spaghetti. The cuts will affect sites with footfall still below pre-Covid levels. Prezzo said it would keep its restaurants in busier shopping areas, such as retail parks and tourist destinations. Covid restrictions at the height of the pandemic forced many hospitality businesses to shut their doors and furlough staff. The financial recovery for thousands of pubs, bars, restaurants and other venues has since been hampered by rising costs, especially for energy.
Embattled retail giant Bed Bath & Beyond has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in US. The company says it will "implement an orderly wind down of its business", including its Buy Buy Baby brand, and close all 475 of its remaining stores by the end of June. It added that it was seeking buyers for some or all of its assets. The chain, which has faced financial troubles for years, recently said it would cut jobs and close 150 stores. Last month, the company announced that it would sell $300m (£241. 1m) worth of its shares, and warned that it might have to file for bankruptcy if the funds were not secured. The once-popular destination for household goods has struggled to keep up with the rise of online shopping. Chapter 11 protection postpones a US company's obligations to its creditors, giving it time to reorganise its debts or sell parts of the business.
Images of revised plans for a huge development on Gateshead's Quayside have been revealed. The multimillion-pound complex was approved in late 2020 but spiralling prices have meant it had to be redesigned. The cost of the 12,500-capacity arena and an international conference centre has risen from an estimated £260m to £330m. A new planning application for the complex has been submitted by developers Ask Patrizia. Planning consultants Lichfields said "operational and constructional requirements" meant the planned hotel would be replaced by a "linear park". This would run along the east of the site, it said.
The CBI is suspending key activities until June after a number of firms quit the business group following allegations of rape and sexual assault. Dozens of firms have announced they are leaving the group or pausing their membership after new allegations about misconduct at the organisation. A second woman claimed she was raped by CBI colleagues in a Guardian article on Friday. The CBI said it "shares the shock and revulsion" at the alleged events. The board of the lobbying group said it wanted to talk to "colleagues, members, experts and stakeholders" to get their opinion on the CBI's future role and purpose. "As a result, we have taken the difficult but necessary decision to suspend all policy and membership activity until an extraordinary general meeting in June," the board said in a statement.
UK-based coffee and sandwich chain Pret A Manger has become the latest high-profile Western brand to launch in the Indian market. The firm opened its first shop in India's financial hub Mumbai on Friday. It comes in the same week that US technology giant Apple launched its first two stores in the country. Pret said last year that it was partnering with a unit of Reliance Industries, which is owned by India's richest man Mukesh Ambani. Pret's chief executive Pano Christou said its offering in the country will reflect the company's brand "while also adapting to local preferences and food habits". It marks the first venture by Reliance Brands, which also owns India's biggest retail chain, into the country's growing food and drinks industry. Reliance said its first outlet is a recreation of Pret's UK shops.
A number of major firms, including John Lewis, have left the CBI after a second allegation of rape at the business lobby group emerged. The Guardian reported that a woman who was working at one of the CBI's overseas offices was sexually assaulted by two male colleagues. It also reported an allegation of stalking by a CBI employee. The CBI said the latest allegations were "abhorrent" and that it had previously been unaware of the claims. A number of firms said they were cancelling their memberships with the business lobbying giant - which claims to represent 190,000 firms - while others said they were suspending activity with the group. John Lewis said it made the decision to quit membership of the CBI "due to the further very serious and ongoing allegations".

Business group giant the CBI says it has handed over additional information about what it describes as a serious criminal offence to the police. The City of London police is already investigating claims a woman was raped at a CBI summer party in 2019. The BBC understands that the "additional information" relates to a new allegation. The CBI has been engulfed in a crisis over a range of allegations including sexual harassment and misconduct. The organisation is one of the UK's leading business lobby groups and claims to speak for 190,000 companies. In a statement, it said: "Late yesterday afternoon the CBI was made aware of additional information relating to a report of a serious criminal offence.
The first female chair of the Football Association ( FA ) is to visit Nottingham to deliver a lecture. Debbie Hewitt will speak at Nottingham Business School for the second of its Business Leaders Lectures series. Ms Hewitt will talk about her career at household names including White Stuff Limited and Marks and Spencer, as well as her time as the first female managing director of RAC. Attendees will be able to ask her questions at an open Q&A session. In 2021, British Vogue listed Ms Hewitt in the Vogue 25 - its annual list of the UK's most influential women and she took on her current FA role in January 2022. She said she was delighted to speak at Nottingham Trent University's (NTU) business school.
Twitter boss Elon Musk has threatened to sue Microsoft as he accused the technology giant of using data from his social media company without permission. "They trained illegally using Twitter data. Lawsuit time," the multi-billionaire said in a tweet. Mr Musk was responding to Microsoft's plan to remove Twitter from its corporate advertising platform. He did not provide further details or evidence to support the claim. Microsoft declined to comment when approached by the BBC on Thursday. Earlier, the company said in a notice that its advertising platform would "no longer support Twitter" from Tuesday 25 April.
US authorities have imposed a $300m (£241m) penalty on tech firm Seagate for allegedly violating export controls of hard disk drives to China's Huawei. Seagate Technology shipped more than $1. 1bn worth of goods to Huawei after export controls were introduced in 2020, the Department of Commerce said. The penalty is the latest move by the US government to stop sales of sophisticated technology to China. US authorities have said such equipment may be used by China's military. Seagate shipped 7. 4 million drives to Huawei for about a year after the rule was imposed by the administration of former President Donald Trump, according to the Commerce Department. It continued to do so "even after Huawei was placed on the Entity List for conduct inimical to our national security," Matthew Axelrod of the department's Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) said.
The former boss of business group giant the CBI says his "reputation has been totally destroyed" after being fired over complaints about his behaviour. Tony Danker acknowledged he had made some staff feel "very uncomfortable", adding: "I apologise for that. " But he said his name had been wrongly associated with separate claims, including rape, that allegedly occurred at the CBI before he joined. The CBI's president said Mr Danker was dismissed on strong legal grounds. Brian McBride told the BBC's Today programme that Mr Danker's description of events was "selective" and he was free to seek "redress" if he felt unfairly treated. Mr Danker said he was considering legal action but does not want to sue.
An overhaul of the overdraft system in the UK has collectively saved borrowers £1bn, the City regulator says, but some people still miss out on support. Banks were told to set their own single overdraft rate by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) two years ago to simplify the options for borrowers. Costs rose for some, but fell for those who previously went overdrawn without permission. The less complex system made fees easier to compare, the FCA said. Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency use, the regulator said, with other types of credit more suitable for long-term borrowing.
A firm says it faces  £140,000  in penalties as it will not be ready in time to comply with Glasgow's Low Emission Zone (LEZ). Dunns Food and Drinks said a delay in receiving new delivery vans meant some of its vehicles would not meet emission standards by the time the zone comes into effect on 1 June. The wholesaler is asking Glasgow City Council for more time to comply. The local authority said it had taken a phased approach to implementation. The LEZ was first announced in 2017 as a way to improve air quality.
Dozens of accountancy firm clients have been told to repay thousands of pounds after incorrectly claiming tax refunds. Workers who used Suffolk-based Apostle Accounting to apply to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) were told they were not entitled to the money, a BBC investigation found. MP Dan Poulter described it as "an unprecedented situation". HMRC said it could not comment. Apostle Accounting denied any errors and said HMRC had not applied its own guidance. According to the HMRC website, people may be able to get a tax refund or rebate for paying too much tax for areas such as pay from a job or work-related expenses. Apostle Accounting, based in Stowmarket, offered clients a service to obtain tax refunds based on work expenses and took a 20 per cent fee before forwarding the money on to its clients.
The number of people looking for work has risen as job vacancies fall suggesting that the uncertain economic outlook is hitting employment. About 220,000 more people were seeking work between December and February than in the three months before. Unemployment rose slightly and job vacancies fell for the ninth time in a row, official figures suggest. However, the figures also showed a rise in the employment rate as more people returned to the jobs market. Overall, UK economic growth has been flat since spring last year, with the effects of high energy prices and rising interest rates taking their toll, along with strikes in several sectors. Figures from the Insolvency Service on Tuesday also showed a sharp rise in the number of firms going bust in March. There were 2,457 business insolvencies last month, up from 1,784 in February. Inflation - the rate at which prices rise - has been running at more than 10%, remaining close to 40-year highs, and the latest earnings figures showed that pay increases continue to lag behind rising prices.
Jonathan Brearley, the chief executive of energy regulator Ofgem, has warned energy suppliers that their "reputation is on the line". His comments came as Ofgem introduced new rules over prepayment meters - which includes banning forced installations of such meters in homes with residents all aged over 85. Speaking to the Today programme, Mr Brearley said: "There is deep concern raised about the practices that have been seen over the past few months. "And if you do not improve what you do, quite frankly, there will be further rules and regulations. "
The TUC is calling for stronger rules to protect workers from decisions made by artificial intelligence systems. AI-powered technologies are now making "high-risk, life changing" decisions about workers' lives including line-managing, hiring and firing staff", said the body which represents unions. But a new law will "dilute" existing protections, it said. The government said the TUC's assessment was "wrong" and has said safeguards will remain in place. A spokesperson said it was committed to improving and upholding workers' rights: "AI is set to drive growth and create new highly-paid jobs throughout the UK, while allowing us to carry out our existing jobs more efficiently and safely.
The CBI's time has passed and it is no longer fit for purpose, according to former Barclays' director Baroness Wheatcroft. The peer said it was "increasingly difficult" for the business lobby group to represent the likes of both Amazon and a small manufacturing firm. The CBI declined to comment on her remarks. The group - and its future - are under the spotlight following claims of misconduct, including sexual assault. The City of London police is investigating a number of allegations. Three CBI employees have been suspended while the claims are examined. Baroness Wheatcroft, who is also the former editor-in-chief of the Wall Street Journal Europe, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the CBI "probably can survive, but in a reduced form". "Should it survive? I think its time has probably passed honestly," she said.
Weekend shopping is seeing a revival as more people return to working in offices during the week, according to a UK retail group. The number of shoppers visiting stores at the weekend rose 9. 7% in March from a year earlier, the British Retail Consortium (BRC) said. However, the BRC said footfall remained below pre-pandemic levels, and the recent recovery in numbers had slowed. Households' finances are still being squeezed by soaring prices. Inflation - the rate at which prices rise - jumped to 10. 4% in the year to February, close to a 40-year high. The overall number of shoppers visiting stores is still down 10. 2% from pre-pandemic levels, the BRC said, with consumers and businesses facing a "challenging economic environment".
New banknotes featuring the image of King Charles are being printed in their millions but will not enter circulation until the middle of next year. The BBC was given exclusive access to the highly-secure site where notes are being produced for the Bank of England. The King's portrait will be the only change to existing designs of £5, £10, £20 and £50 notes, and new notes will replace damaged or worn older ones. However, machines such as self-service tills need to recognise the new image. That process requires a relatively long build-up, and is why the notes will only be issued in mid-2024 - many months after 50p pieces featuring the King's image were put in use, according to the Bank of England's chief cashier. Sarah John, whose role means her signature is on the banknotes, said: "There is a lot to do to ensure that machines used up and down the country can accept the banknotes.
The global economy is set to grow at roughly 3% over the next five years - the slowest pace since 1990, the head of the International Monetary Fund has said. Kristalina Georgieva said the path ahead was "rough and foggy" - and warned that cooperation to address the problems was becoming more difficult. She spoke in Washington ahead of the IMF's annual meeting. In her remarks, she called for more help for low-income countries. "For the weakest members of our global family, additional support from wealthier countries is essential," she said, calling for countries to boost funds for the IMF, which makes low-cost loans to countries in need. The organisation is bracing for a wave of requests for help or debt restructuring, as the shocks from Covid-19 crisis, the war in Ukraine and soaring cost of living continue to reverberate.
Amazon's planned takeover of Roomba vacuum cleaner maker iRobot is being reviewed by the UK's competition watchdog. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) is looking at whether the deal could lead to "a substantial lessening of competition". Amazon is seeking to grow its operations for smart home appliances. Both Amazon and iRobot have both said they are "working co-operatively" with regulators. Amazon announced it was buying iRobot last year in a $1. 7bn (£1. 4bn) takeover deal. Roomba models sell in the UK from £249, with some costing up to £899. A month after Amazon agreed the deal with iRobot, US authorities said they would review the takeover. In February, the Financial Times reported that European competition authorities were also set to launch a probe into the deal.
A retail company trading as Forever Unique has gone into liquidation, an insolvency firm has said. Begbies Traynor said every option "had been explored but there was no other choice" but to liquidate Dress Me Online Limited. Forever Unique, founded by Seema Malhotra who appears on ITV's The Real Housewives of Cheshire, was trading as normal, the firm said. The BBC has approached Forever Unique for comment. Amie Johnson, insolvency director at Begbies Traynor, said: "A combination of the economic climate, inflation and issues in recovering from the pandemic have resulted in these circumstances. "Creditors have been informed and we will keep them up to date with progress. " Begbies Traynor said the company employed 21 people and according to its latest set of accounts turnover was £2. 3m to December 2020.
The CBI business group is in a "very difficult place" as it faces several allegations of sexual misconduct, the boss of one of its member firms said. Andy Wood, chief executive of brewing company Adnams, said he had held discussions with his leadership team over potentially leaving the group. It comes as an inquiry continues at the CBI into a number of claims, including an allegation of rape in 2019. The government announced on Wednesday it was stopping contact with the group. The Treasury as well as ministers from the departments for business and trade are understood to not be engaging with the CBI, pending the outcome of the investigation into the misconduct allegations. The decision came after the CBI, which is one of Britain's largest business groups representing more than 190,000 businesses, announced it was postponing all of its public events, including its annual dinner.
New plans for post-Brexit border checks on goods coming into the UK will deter many EU suppliers and push up food prices, a trade body has said. The government says its proposals will prevent delays by reducing the need for physical checks for many goods. But the Cold Chain Federation said it was "deeply concerned" by the complex forms and costs involved to exporters. The Cabinet Office said it was a "huge step forward for the safety, security and efficiency of our borders". The plans - which have been delayed several times - are designed to introduce checks the UK is required to make under its Brexit trade agreement with the EU.
The UK's largest oil and gas producer has told staff it expects to shed 350 UK onshore jobs, blaming the UK government's windfall tax. Harbour Energy has been carrying out a review of its operations since January, after warning that it was re-assessing its future activity in the UK. The vast majority of its 1,200 UK onshore staff are based in Aberdeen. A statement from the company said it was working hard to mitigate the impact of the workforce reduction. The statement said: "When we announced the review, we said that as a result of the energy profits levy, which results in an effective tax rate of 75% in the UK regardless of the level of oil and gas prices in the market or realised, we have had to reassess our future activity level in the UK," the company said.
The government has stopped engaging with the CBI business lobby giant  group pending the outcome of an investigation into sexual misconduct allegations. The Treasury as well as ministers from the Department for business and trade have "paused engagement" with the CBI, the BBC understands. It comes as the lobby group faces a number of claims, including rape. The CBI said it understood the government's decision as it awaits the outcome of an investigation. Law firm Fox Williams has been hired to look into all the allegations facing the CBI. The group said it expects to have "preliminary findings and actions" from the first stage of the investigation shortly after Easter. The group has postponed all public events in the meantime, including the CBI's annual dinner.
UK-based online store Book Depository is being closed down by its parent company, the US technology giant Amazon. Book Depository has told customers it will cease operations later this month after almost two decades in business. It comes after Amazon announced plans to cut thousands of jobs as it shakes up its businesses globally. The news was met with sadness by many of Book Depository's customers from around the world. "We are sorry to let you know that Book Depository will be closing on 26 April 2023," the company said. Customers can continue to order books until midday UK time on its last day of trading, the company's website added.
Johnson & Johnson has proposed to pay almost $9bn to resolve tens of thousands of lawsuits it faces in North America that claim its baby powder and other talc-based products cause cancer. The healthcare giant said it still believed the claims were "specious" but was hoping the new settlement offer would help conclude its legal battle. The figure marks a big boost over the $2bn it had proposed previously. The new offer has significant support from people tied to the case, it said. The company is facing more than 40,000 lawsuits from former customers who say using its talc-based baby powder caused cancer, including some who allege the product contained cancer-causing asbestos. It stopped US sales of its talc-based baby powder in 2020, citing "misinformation" that had sapped demand for the product, applied to prevent nappy rash and for other cosmetic uses, including dry shampoo. Last year, it announced plans to end sales globally.
British billionaire Sir Richard Branson's rocket company Virgin Orbit has filed for bankruptcy in the US after failing to secure new investment. The satellite launch company halted operations weeks ago but it hopes to find a buyer for the business. The company, based in California, announced last week that it would cut 85% of its 750-strong workforce. Earlier this year, a Virgin Orbit rocket failed to complete its first-ever satellite launch from UK soil. Virgin Orbit's boss Dan Hart said that although the company had "taken great efforts" to address its finances and secure more funding, "we ultimately must do what is best for the business. " He said that Virgin Orbit would now concentrate on finding a buyer for the business "to provide clarity on the future of the company to its customers, vendors, and employees".
London City Airport has scrapped the 100ml liquid limit by using high-tech scanners which also allow electronics to be kept in hand luggage at security. Travellers can now carry on up to two litres of liquid, and toiletries no longer have to be put in separate bags. It is the second UK airport to use this technology in all its security lanes, after Teesside introduced it in March. The government has set a June 2024 deadline for most UK airports to install the machines. London City Airport has brought in the C3 scanners which takes high-resolution 3D images of bags.
L'Oreal has agreed to buy Australian skincare brand Aesop in a deal worth $2. 53bn (£2bn), the French beauty giant's largest takeover in decades. The brand is a "superb combination of urbanity, hedonism and undeniable luxury," L'Oreal chief executive Nicolas Hieronimus said. Since its founding 36 years ago, Aesop has developed a cult following around the world for its products including soaps, lotions and creams. Aesop has almost 400 stores globally. The deal, which is subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the third quarter of this year. Mr Hieronimus said that L'Oreal will help Aesop expand in China, where it opened its first store in 2022. "Aesop taps into all of today's ascending currents and L'Oreal will contribute to unleash its massive potential, notably in China and travel retail," he added.

Electric carmaker Tesla has been ordered to pay almost $3. 2m (£2. 6m) to a black former worker after he won a racial harassment lawsuit. Owen Diaz, a lift operator from 2015 to 2016 at its Fremont factory, was subjected to a racially hostile work environment, a federal jury found. However, the payment has been slashed by 98% from the $137m that he was originally awarded in 2021. A judge ruled last year that the initial amount was excessive. On Monday, Mr Diaz was awarded $3m in punitive damages and $175,000 in damages for emotional distress. "If we had been allowed to introduce new evidence, the verdict would've been zero imo," Tesla chief executive Elon Musk said on Twitter. "Jury did the best they could with the information they had. I respect the decision," he added.
Oil prices have surged after several of the world's largest exporters announced surprise cuts in production. The price of Brent crude oil is trading close to $85 a barrel after jumping by almost 6%. Economists warned that higher oil prices could make it harder to bring down the cost of living. But the RAC motoring group said it does not expect petrol prices to rise unless the higher oil price is sustained over several days. Brent crude prices rose after Saudi Arabia, Iraq and several Gulf states said on Sunday they were cutting output by more than one million barrels of oil a day. In addition, Russia said it will extend its cut of half a million barrels per day until the end of the year. Energy giants BP and Shell saw their share prices rise on Monday, with both rising more than 4%.
Cineworld has said it will raise new funding as it dropped plans to sell its businesses in the US, UK and Ireland after failing to find a buyer. The troubled cinema chain saw its share price fall by nearly 30% after announcing it would terminate the move. At the same time, Cineworld said it had struck a deal with its lenders to restructure its substantial debt and exit bankruptcy. Like other cinemas, Cineworld was hit hard by the pandemic. Many theatres were forced to close for extended periods during lockdowns, or had to operate at a reduced capacity due to social distancing rules. They also continue to face tough competition from streaming services. Cineworld, which is the world's second-largest cinema chain, filed for bankruptcy in the US in August last year as it struggled under the weight of $5bn (£4bn) in debt.
The chairman of Tesco, the UK's biggest retailer, says he cannot forecast when rises in food prices will peak. But John Allan said the supermarket was "doing our bit" to help customers cope with the impact of high inflation. Shortages of fresh produce helped push food inflation to 18. 2% in the year to February, the highest since 1978. Amid the cost-of-living crisis, Mr Allan wants the government to expand free school meals in England, saying too many children are going hungry. He said soaring food prices meant there were people who were "very, very, very hard pressed", adding that Tesco was trying to help customers cope by showing them ways in which they can economise. Looking ahead, he said: "Most people expect there will be some easing of inflation. I'm not going to be brave enough to forecast how much and when, but it's likely to go down. "
Heathrow Airport has said that some passengers may face security delays over the Easter holidays due to 10-day strike action over pay. Hundreds of security officers in the Unite union, who work for Heathrow Airport, have begun 10 days of industrial action. It threatens disruption at the UK's largest airport at the start of the Easter school holidays. However, Heathrow said the airport was operating "as normal" on Friday. The strike involves security guards at Terminal 5, which is only used by British Airways, and those who check cargo. Unite has accused the airport of a real-terms wage cut. Heathrow said it had offered a 10% pay increase back-dated to 1 January, plus a lump sum payment of more than £1,000.
A lawsuit has been filed against Google to seek £3. 4bn ($4. 2bn) in compensation for publishers for lost revenue. The claim, by ex-Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur, alleges Google unlawfully used a dominant position in online adverts in a way that reduced what publishers could make from them. Google said it would fight the "speculative and opportunistic" action vigorously. It is the second such lawsuit, after a similar case was launched in November. That was brought by former Ofcom director Claudio Pollack, who is looking for up to £13. 6bn in damages from the tech giant. The cases concern advertising technology - adtech - that decides in a fraction of a second which online adverts consumers will see, how much they will cost, and how much publishers will earn.
A chicken processing plant has closed its gates for the last time after more than 50 years, causing 700 job losses. The 2 Sisters poultry giant announced plans to shut down operations at Llangefni, Anglesey, in January. Despite a taskforce setup in a bid to save the factory, its owners confirmed it would shut at the end of March. Some workers said the closure was a "crying shame" but others remain optimistic the local economy will grow in other sectors creating new jobs. When the decision was first made in January, Anglesey council's leader, Llinos Medi described the move as a "devastating blow". Local Conservative MP Virginia Crosbie told BBC Radio Wales: "The Island needs hope and I am determined to do everything I can to help. It is a really sad day for the workers of 2Sisters. "It isn't just the employees that are impacted, it is the families, the communities and the supply chains.
A butcher's shop is closing after 91 years in business due to rising energy prices and falling trade. Clive Ashpole in Kempston, Bedford, said he was faced with a 300% increase in his fuel costs this year. P J Ashpole and Son was opened by his grandfather in 1932, with the 67-year-old taking over the business in 2012 when his father died. He said he could not pass on the energy price increase to the customer, so "decided to retire".
Japan's government says it plans to put restrictions on some computer chip-making exports, following similar moves by the US and the Netherlands. The measures will apply to 23 types of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Semiconductors, which power everything from mobile phones to military hardware, are at the centre of a bitter dispute between the US and China. China has frequently called the US a "tech hegemony" in response to export controls imposed by Washington. However, Friday's statement from Japan's trade and industry ministry did not make any reference to China or the US. "We are fulfilling our responsibility as a technological nation to contribute to international peace and stability," the ministry said.
British billionaire Sir Richard Branson's rocket company Virgin Orbit says it will cut 85% of its workforce after failing to secure new investment. The firm will also cease operations for the foreseeable future, according to media reports. It comes weeks after the company paused operations in an apparent attempt to shore up its finances. Earlier this year, a Virgin Orbit rocket failed to complete the first ever satellite launch from UK soil. The company's shares plunged by more than 44% in after-hours trading in New York on Thursday. In a US regulatory filing, Virgin Orbit said it made the decision "in order to reduce expenses in light of the company's inability to secure meaningful funding. "
Key figures in artificial intelligence want training of powerful AI systems to be suspended amid fears of a risk  to humanity. They have signed an open letter warning of potential risks, and say the race to develop AI systems is out of control. Twitter chief Elon Musk is among those who want training of AIs above a certain capacity to be halted for at least six months. Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak and some researchers at DeepMind also signed. OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT, recently released GPT-4 - a state-of-the-art technology, which has impressed observers with its ability to do tasks such as answering questions about objects in images.
Welsh Water customers face "significant  price hike" to pay for measures to stop sewage being released into rivers and seas, MPs have heard. The not-for-profit company told the Welsh Affairs Committee it had a "part to play" in improving water quality. More than 105,000 sewage spills were recorded in 2020, according to Natural Resources Wales (NRW). Sewage discharges are allowed during heavy rainfall to protect people's homes. MPs heard five of nine Welsh rivers designated as Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) were failing on phosphorus levels and excessive nutrients. Only 40% of Welsh rivers meet the criteria for good ecological status. For bathing water, 80% were ranked as excellent.
High Street retailer Next has said it will put up its prices by less than expected this year. It said it now expected prices to rise by 7% in the spring and summer of 2023, and 3% in the autumn and winter - slightly less than the increases it warned of in January. It said shipping costs were falling and suppliers were charging better rates. It came as Next reported a 5. 7% rise in pre-tax profits to £870. 4m for the year to January. On Tuesday, the retailer also announced it would buy the Cath Kidston fashion brand for £8. 5m, but not its shops. Next has about 500 stores and trades online. It is often considered a good indicator of how the British High Street is doing. The retailer had already put up its prices in 2022, blaming rising production costs and a weaker pound.
The UK is at risk of losing jobs and investment in the "net-zero race", senior cross-party MPs have warned. The government is set to announce its revised energy strategy on Thursday. It argues the UK is a "world-leader" in working towards net-zero. But cross-party MPs fear investors - and jobs - could move elsewhere if the strategy is not ambitious enough. A Department for Business and Trade official said the government was having "almost daily" conversations with companies so they know the UK is committed to supporting green technology.
Shares of Chinese technology giant Alibaba have jumped after it announced a plan to break up the company. The firm says five of the six units created by the move will explore raising fresh funding and initial public offering (IPO) options. Alibaba shares gained more than 14% in New York on Tuesday and were more than 13% higher in Hong Kong on Wednesday. Its US-listed shares have fallen by almost 70% since 2020 on concerns over Beijing's crackdown on the tech sector. The move comes after reports that Alibaba founder Jack Ma, who has rarely been seen in public in the last three years, resurfaced in China this week after a long absence. Alibaba said the decision to split up the business is the biggest restructuring in its 24-year history.
The Bank of England is on "heightened" alert for further turmoil in the banking sector, its governor has said. However, Andrew Bailey told MPs the recent problems facing lenders had not caused stress in the UK banking system. Officials have tried to calm investors since Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank failed, sparking concerns about the stability of other lenders. In Europe, worries over the strength of Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse led to a rushed takeover by rival UBS. Nerves among investors have sparked sharp falls in banking shares around the world. Mr Bailey told MPs on the Treasury Committee that the Bank of England would "go on being vigilant". He said we were in a period of "very heightened, frankly, tension and alertness".
Retailer Next has bought floral fashion brand Cath Kidston from administrators in a deal worth £8. 5m. Next has taken on the name and intellectual property but not Cath Kidston's four shops. Administrators PwC said the shops would stay open while "operations are wound down", but added there would be redundancies. Next has been snapping up struggling retailers, buying Made. com and fashion chain Joules late last year. Cath Kidston collapsed in 2020 with the loss of nearly 1,000 jobs and the closure of all its UK shops. It was bought and relaunched by private investment firm, Baring Private Equity Asia, which then sold the business last July to restructuring firm Hilco Capital. Hilco had reportedly been looking at a sale of the business last month.
Artificial intelligence (AI) could replace the equivalent of 300 million full-time jobs, a report by investment bank Goldman Sachs says. It could replace a quarter of work tasks in the US and Europe but may also mean new jobs and a productivity boom. And it could eventually increase the total annual value of goods and services produced globally by 7%. Generative AI, able to create content indistinguishable from human work, is "a major advancement", the report says.
Talks to resolve a long-running row with Royal Mail staff over pay and conditions are close to collapse. Discussions are "precarious" and in their "last throes", with the next 24-48 hours key to settling the dispute, a source close to the talks said. The Royal Mail board is reported as threatening to put the firm into administration if a deal is not done. The BBC understands that there may be movement on the current pay offer to unions to try and resolve the issues. "Administration is a real possibility for Royal Mail if the industrial action continues. It is not a negotiating ploy," the source told the BBC. A separate source said that Royal Mail is in "uncharted territory" in terms of what would happen if it went into administration, but the unprofitable letter delivery part of the business would likely have to be split from the parcel delivery part.
The government regulator has granted environmental permits for the disposal of waste for the proposed Sizewell C nuclear power station. The Environment Agency permits will cover waste from the new plant, its build, commissioning, operating, and ongoing decommissioning of Sizewell A. NNB Generation Company (SZC) Ltd, part of EDF Energy, applied for permits. Protest group Stop Sizewell C said it was "disappointed" they had been issued for the site on the Suffolk coast. The Environment Agency said it consulted on the application from July to October 2020 and on its proposed decision and draft permits from July to September 2022.
The government has agreed to examine proposals to expand Luton Airport that would see passenger numbers increase from 18 million to 32 million a year. Luton Rising, the Luton Council company that owns the airport, said it could generate £1. 5bn per year and create thousands of new jobs. But anti-noise campaigners have called the expansion plans "tragic". The government's Planning Inspectorate has six months to examine the plans. The transport secretary will then decide whether to grant development consent. The expansion plans include new terminal capacity, an extension to the current airfield platform and new airside and landside facilities.
The energy windfall tax, political uncertainty and increased costs are pushing away investment in North Sea oil and gas, a report has warned. Industry body Offshore Energies UK estimates that 90% of offshore firms are cutting spending worth billions. It says a continued lack of investment would see production fall by 80% by 2030, increasing reliance on imports. Environmental group Uplift says oil and gas firms need to invest more in renewables. The Energy Profits Levy - which the industry opposes - saw headline tax rates increase last year from 40% to 75%. But companies have still been recording record profits with BP making $27. 7bn (£23bn) in 2022.
Twitter boss Elon Musk has announced a shake-up of the social media platform's paid Twitter Blue feature. From 15 April only verified subscribers will have posts recommended to other users and be allowed to vote in polls. Under the policy, posts from non-paying accounts will not be included in the "For you" stream of recommended tweets. Last week, the firm said it would remove the verified status of some "legacy" accounts, which date from before Mr Musk bought the firm. Users currently pay $7 (£5. 70) a month for blue-tick verification, which also allows access to additional features. Mr Musk said the changes were "the only realistic way to address advanced AI bot swarms taking over. It is otherwise a hopeless losing battle. " "Voting in polls will require verification for same reason," he added. In an earlier post, Mr Musk said paid verification significantly increases the cost of using bots and makes it easier to identify them.
More than 100 workers have lost their jobs after a furniture business went into administration. The administrator for Kettle Interiors UK Ltd, in Corby, Northamptonshire, cited "economic challenges" including increasing freight costs. There were 126 people employed at its Macadam Road trading address - all of whom have been made redundant. The family-run business sold furniture under a number a brands to UK and European retailers. Thomas McKay, from administrator Begbies Traynor, said: "Due to the economic challenges facing the furniture sector, particularly the significant increase in freight costs since Covid in the last two or three years, Kettle Interiors has reluctantly been placed into administration.
British Airways is cancelling around 32 flights a day to and from Heathrow Airport at the start of the Easter holidays. The move is due to a planned 10-day strike by 1,400 Heathrow security workers in the Unite union, who are taking action in a dispute over pay. BA said it had offered a range of options to affected customers. Heathrow says contingency plans will be put in place to ensure it can "operate as normal". Workers at Terminal 5, which is used by British Airways, will take part in the action, as will those who check cargo. The walkout is due to start on 31 March and end on 9 April. Talks last week failed to avert the action. BA has been told by the airport to reduce its schedule on those days by 5% and has stopped selling tickets.
Plans to turn a former Vauxhall Motors site into warehouses have been approved by councillors. A Luton Council committee meeting heard the developer claim it could create up to 450 jobs at the site and boost the local economy. Developers want to create up to 34,250 square metres of flexible industrial and logistics floorspace at the 18-acre Griffin House site in Osborne Road. The hybrid plans are subject to a response from the Environment Agency. Prologis UK CCCLI Sarl and Prologis UK CCCLII submitted the plans to the council, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said. The Labour-run council's planning team leader Clive Inwards said: "This seeks permission for the phased demolition of all the buildings currently on the site and its redevelopment. "A restored river channel will be running through the site with a wild flower meadow on one side and pedestrian and cycle access on the other. "These buildings are evidently relatively large structures to meet modern requirements for industrial or storage uses, but are considered acceptable. "
The assets and loans of collapsed US lender Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) are being bought by rival First Citizens BancShares. Investors welcomed the deal, sending First Citizens shares up more than 40%. The rise helped drive broader gains in banking shares, which have been in turmoil since SVB's failure sparked fears over the stability of the sector. In Europe, worries over the strength of Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse led to a rushed takeover by rival UBS. The deal for SVB brings to a close a saga that started earlier this month after a run on the bank forced US regulators to take over. Its collapse was swiftly followed by the failure of another US lender, Signature Bank. The demise of the two were the biggest bank failures in the US since the financial crisis of 2008. Under the SVB takeover deal, all 17 former SVB branches will open under the First Citizens brand on Monday. SVB customers are being advised to continue using their current branch until they receive notice from First Citizens Bank that their account has been fully moved across.
A decision to allow the owner of P&O Ferries to be involved in a major new infrastructure project has sparked outrage, after the firm sacked 800 workers without notice last year. DP World has been approved to co-run the Thames Freeport in Essex, as part of Rishi Sunak's freeports plan. The Trades Union Congress said it was an "appalling decision", enabling other employers "to act with impunity". The government said the new freeport would "help to grow the economy". P&O Ferries sacked hundreds of seafarers in March 2022 and replaced them with foreign agency workers paid less than the minimum wage. The move sparked outrage and led to calls for P&O's boss Peter Hebblethwaite to resign. A week afterwards, Mr Hebblethwaite admitted to MPs that the decision had broken employment law. At the time, the government called the workers' treatment "wholly unacceptable".
Three energy firms accounted for the majority of forced prepayment meter installations last year, the government has said. British Gas, Scottish Power and Ovo Energy made up 70% of all forced installations, government data shows. In total, more than 94,000 prepayment meters were forcibly installed in 2022. The practice was halted after it emerged that debt agents acting for British Gas had broken into vulnerable people's homes to force-fit meters. The energy regulator, Ofgem, said earlier this month that it was extending the ban on forced installations, which had been due to expire at the end of March. Ofgem says all forced installations will be suspended until energy companies sign up to and comply with its new code of practice. About 4. 5 million households in the UK use prepayment meters. They pay a higher price for their gas and electricity, although in this month's Budget the government said it would bring the charges in line with customers who pay by direct debit from the beginning of July.
Parts of the source code which underpins multi-billionaire Elon Musk's social media platform have been leaked online, Twitter says. It says the code was posted on GitHub, a Microsoft-owned service where software developers share code. It has now been taken down after Twitter requested its removal. Separately, Mr Musk has reportedly signalled to Twitter workers that the firm is worth less than half the $44bn (£36bn) he paid for it last year. "GitHub does not generally comment on decisions to remove content. However, in the interest of transparency, we share every DMCA [Digital Millennium Copyright Act] takedown request publicly," a GitHub spokesperson told the BBC. The DMCA was signed into law in the US in 1998. It is aimed at protecting copyrighted material on the internet. In the takedown request, Twitter called on GitHub to provide information on who was behind the account which leaked the code - named FreeSpeechEnthusiast.
Shoppers facing cost-of-living pressures turned to discount and second-hand stores last month, giving retail sales a surprise boost. Sales volumes rose by 1. 2% in February, official figures showed, the biggest monthly gain since October last year. Food sales also rose, but the Office for National Statistics said there were signs price pressures had cut spending in restaurants and on takeaway meals. Figures out earlier this week showed prices rising faster than expected. Inflation - the rate at which prices rise - jumped to 10. 4% in the year to February, remaining close to its highest level for 40 years. The Bank of England has been rising interest rates in an attempt to cool price rises, and on Thursday it lifted rates to 4. 25% from 4%. February's rise in retail sales was stronger than forecast, and followed an upwardly revised 0. 9% increase in January. Sales volumes are now back to pre-pandemic levels, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said, although are still 3. 5% lower than a year ago.
Embattled Chinese property giant Evergrande has offered and  announced plans for restructuring around $20bn (£16. 2bn) in offshore debt, which could be seen as a model for other struggling developers. The firm said the measures will help "efforts to resume operations and resolve issues on shore". Evergrande has more than $300bn in liabilities and defaulted on its debts in late 2021. The crisis has spooked traders who fear contagion in China's property sector. "The proposed restructuring complies with international restructuring norms and best practices," Evergrande said in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Wednesday. The firm added that it would "use its best endeavours to restore a healthy ecosystem of capital and business, repair its capital structure and stabilise its business operations".
US companies are "more negative than they've been in a long time" about doing business in China, according to the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in China (AmCham China). As tensions continue to grow between the world's two biggest economies, Michael Hart says that the rivalry has "made business very challenging". The governments of President Xi and President Biden have been disagreeing on what seems like an ever-increasing number of issues; ranging from Ukraine, to coronavirus, and Taiwan, to Tiktok, and semiconductors. That is reflected in AmCham China's latest annual survey of its more than 900 members. For the first time it shows that a majority, 55%, no longer regard China as a top-three investment priority - a place where they should spend money to grow their business.
Ikea has been told to protect its staff in the UK from sexual harassment following concerns over how it handled an allegation from a former employee at one of its stores. It is the latest household name to sign such an agreement, after a similar move by McDonald's last month. The UK equality watchdog told the BBC that it was rare to take this kind of action. Ikea said it did "not tolerate harassment of any kind". The Swedish furniture giant has around 12,000 employees in the UK.The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) first got involved with Ikea in February last year, after being made aware of an allegation of sexual harassment and assault in one of its UK stores. It was also alleged that the complaint was not appropriately handled by management.
The International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) says it has reached an agreement with Ukraine  on funding worth $15. 6bn (£12. 8bn) at war. The organisation's first loan to a country at war is expected to be approved in the coming weeks. It would also be one of the largest financing packages Ukraine has received since Russia's invasion. The IMF recently changed a rule to allow loans to countries facing "exceptionally high uncertainty". "Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues to have a devastating impact on the economy: activity contracted by 30 percent in 2022, a large share of the capital stock has been destroyed, and poverty levels have climbed," IMF official Gavin Gray said in a statement. "The programme has been designed in line with the new fund's policy on lending under exceptionally high uncertainty, and strong financing assurances are expected from donors, including the G7 and EU. "
Stock markets around the world have bounced back after the US and UK governments again reassured markets about banks' stability. Investors have recently been unnerved by a string of bank failures. But US stock markets were higher after Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen signalled the US government would protect people's deposits if another bank collapsed. In the UK, the FTSE closed 1. 79% higher after gains in top bank shares. NatWest, Prudential and Barclays shares gained about 5%, while Standard Chartered and Lloyds also traded higher. Ms Yellen said "the situation is stabilising, and the US banking system remains sound" in a speech on Tuesday. This follows the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank earlier this month. The failures were triggered by depositors rushing to withdraw money after anxiety over the banks' health.
Energy support schemes for households pushed government borrowing in February to its highest level for the month since records began in 1993. Borrowing, the difference between spending and tax income, was £16. 7bn, last month, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said. The ONS said this was largely due to spending on energy schemes this year. However, the interest paid on government debt was £6. 9bn in February - £1. 3bn less than a year earlier. Interest payments fell because of changes in the inflation rate that sets how much interest the government has to pay on its debts. But the amount borrowed exceeded economists' expectations and followed a surprise surplus in the public finances in January.
China's anti-fraud watchdog has accused chip tycoon Zhao Weiguo of corruption, in the latest sign of trouble faced by the country's semiconductor industry. Mr Zhao is the former chairman of computer chipmaker Tsinghua Unigroup. Key players in the sector were investigated for corruption last year after the government poured billions of dollars into projects which stalled or failed. Mr Zhao and Tsinghua Unigroup did not respond to BBC requests for comment. In a statement, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection alleges that Mr Zhao "took the state-owned company he managed as his private fiefdom. " The regulator says he handed profitable businesses to his relatives and friends, and purchased goods and services from companies managed by his associates at "prices significantly higher than the market".
Sri Lanka has secured a $3bn (£2. 4bn) bailout from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as it faces its worst economic crisis since independence. The deal has been nearly a year in the making and a lifeline for the country that has billions of dollars in loans. Foreign minister Ali Sabry told the BBC the government will raise funds by restructuring state-owned enterprises and privatising the national airline. However, analysts warned Sri Lanka still faces a tough road ahead. The country's economy has been hit hard by the pandemic, rising energy prices, populist tax cuts and inflation of more than 50%.
Online retail giant Amazon plans to cut another 9,000 jobs as it seeks to save costs. The firm, which employs 1. 5 million people worldwide, said the cuts would fall mainly in areas including cloud computing and advertising. It did not say which countries would be affected but said the positions would be closed in the next few weeks. Boss Andy Jassy said it was a "difficult decision" but it would be best for the company in the long term. The firm already axed 18,000 jobs in January. Mr Jassy said that in recent years, most areas of Amazon's business had been adding roles. "However, given the uncertain economy in which we reside, and the uncertainty that exists in the near future, we have chosen to be more streamlined in our costs and headcount," he continued.
Signs are emerging of  renters being priced out of major cities as rents rise and cost of living pressures continue, according to Rightmove. The property portal said evidence suggested a greater proportion of renters were looking to move out of the city where they live than last year. It said rental prices listed by landlords were up 12% in a year, and tenant demand was high. The boss of Foxtons has said a lack of options will push people out of London. The estate agency's chief executive, Guy Gittins, told the BBC earlier this month that the situation was "so dramatic" tenants would "have to compromise on the property type or location".
Frasers Group has bought a shopping centre for £58m and has "confidence in the future of the UK High Street", it said. The Mall in Luton, with more than 150 retailers, was put up for sale by Capital & Regional last year. It opened as The Arndale Centre in 1972 and renamed in the 1990s. Frasers Group, which is owned by Sports Direct boss Mike Ashley, said it was a "key retail destination". The Mall, bought by Capital & Regional in 2006, generated fees of £1. 4m in 2022, it said. Captial & Regional said it had "previously deconsolidated its interest in The Mall, Luton,meaning the gross assets related to the investment are nil and therefore the transaction does not result in any profit or loss on disposal to the Group".
Jacqueline Gold, who transformed the lingerie and sex toy chain Ann Summers and was a champion of women in business, has died aged 62. Her family said she died on Thursday evening after seven years of treatment for breast cancer. Ms Gold expanded Ann Summers from a firm with four backstreet shops into a multi-million pound business. She was made a CBE in 2016 for services to entrepreneurship, women in business and social enterprise. Ms Gold's family said: "It is with unspeakable sadness that Ann Summers confirm our amazing executive chair Jacqueline Gold CBE passed away yesterday evening with her husband Dan, daughter Scarlett, sister Vanessa, and brother-in-law Nick, by her side. "She was. . . an activist for women in business, and championed female entrepreneurs with the ambition to better the working environment for women," the statement added.
A group of big US banks has injected $30bn (£24. 8bn) into a smaller regional bank, First Republic, which had been seen as at risk of failure. The move came as authorities in the US are trying to quell panic over the health of the banking system, after a series of bank collapses. Worries about the sector have spread globally, raising fears of a crisis. US regulators called the move "most welcome", while the banks said their action reflected their "confidence". They said the banking system had plenty of cash and made big profits. "Recent events did nothing to change this," they said. "The actions of America's largest banks reflect their confidence in the country's banking system. " Reports of plans for the aid from the 11 banks, led by JP Morgan and Citigroup, helped lift financial markets and sent shares in First Republic surging more than 20% at one point, triggering trading halts.
John Lewis has axed its staff bonus for a second time and signalled job cuts are in the pipeline, after what it described as a "very tough year". The department store firm, which also owns Waitrose supermarkets, reported a £234m pre-tax loss. Partnership chair Dame Sharon White said the stores had attracted more customers, but they had spent less. She said the losses meant bonuses could not be issued this year for the second time since it began the scheme in 1953. Dame Sharon suggested the firm may have to reduce staff numbers, or "partners" as they are known at the company. "As we need to become more efficient and productive, that will have an impact on our number of partners," she said. When questioned about specific plans around job losses Dame Sharon said: "There are no numbers. "
Troubled banking giant Credit Suisse says it will borrow up to $54bn ($54bn; £44. 5bn) from the Swiss central bank to shore up its finances. The lender said it was taking decisive action to strengthen its liquidity as it looked to become a simpler bank. Shares in Credit Suisse fell 24% on Wednesday after it said it had found "weakness" in its financial reporting. This prompted a general sell off on European markets, and fears of a wider financial crisis. Credit Suisse said its borrowing measures demonstrated "decisive action to strengthen [the bank]". "My team and I are resolved to move forward rapidly to deliver a simpler and more focused bank built around client needs," Credit Suisse's chief executive Ulrich Koerner said in a statement.
Electronics giant Samsung says it plans to invest around 300tn won ($230. 8bn; £189. 6bn) over 20 years in the South Korea government's push to develop a mega semiconductor hub in the country. This will be put towards building five chip factories, the firm told the BBC. Samsung is the world's biggest maker of memory chips, smartphones and TVs. Under the official plan, companies in high-tech industries will be offered incentives like expanded tax breaks and infrastructure support. "The mega cluster will be the key base of our semiconductor ecosystem," South Korea's Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said in a statement on Wednesday. It said it planned to secure around 550tn won in private-sector investment and "leap forward as a leading country in the middle of fierce global competition over advanced industries".
A man has said he was shocked to see the doors of a major High Street department store had been left open more than an hour after closing time. Zaid Jamel said he was walking past Marks & Spencer on Westgate Street in Ipswich at 19:35 GMT on Monday and spotted the automatic doors were wide open. The store closes at 18:00. A video he posted on social media has been viewed more than a million times. The store said there was an error with the door and fixed the problem quickly. "Colleagues returned to lock the door within the hour and no-one entered the building," a spokesman added.
The government response to the sackings of nearly 800 P&O workers is a national disgrace, a union has said. The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union is staging a demonstration in Westminster on the anniversary of the controversial dismissals. Staff were fired without notice and replaced with foreign agency workers paid less than the UK minimum wage. The government said it reacted "decisively" and has made substantial progress on seafarer protection. P&O Ferries services were suspended after the mass sackings and several of the company's vessels failed safety inspections before being cleared to resume operating.
Job vacancies in the UK have fallen for the eighth time in a row as companies blamed economic pressures for holding back on hiring new staff. The official figures come a day ahead of Wednesday's Budget when the chancellor is expected to set out plans to encourage people back into work. The number of jobs on offer between December and February fell by 51,000 compared with the three months before. Despite the drop, the number of job vacancies remains high at 1. 1 million. There are also 328,000 more vacancies compared to the pre-pandemic period of between January and March 2020. The rate of economic inactivity - people aged between 16 to 64 who are not in work and not seeking a job - dipped to 21. 3% between November and January. This was driven by younger people aged between 16 to 24 either getting jobs or looking for work. However, there are still nine million economically inactive Britons who are not part of the workforce either because they are students, have retired or are suffering from long-term illness.

A US court has ruled that "gig" economy giants including Uber and Lyft can continue treating their workers as independent contractors in the state of California. The California appeals court found that a labour measure, known as Proposition 22, was largely constitutional. Labour groups and some workers had opposed the measure, saying it robbed them of rights like sick leave. The firms say the proposition protects other benefits such as flexibility. The latest ruling overturns a decision made by a lower court in California in 2021, which found that Proposition 22 affected lawmakers' powers to set standards at the workplace. The state of California and a group representing Uber, Lyft and other firms appealed against the decision. On Monday, a three-judge panel at the appeals court ruled that workers could be treated as independent contractors. However it removed a clause, which put restrictions on collective bargaining by workers, from Proposition 22.
HSBC has swooped to buy the UK arm of collapsed US Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), bringing relief to UK tech firms who warned they could go bust without help. Customers and businesses who had been unable to withdraw their money will now be able to access it as normal. The government and the Bank of England led the talks and worked through the night to scramble together the deal, which involves no taxpayer money. HSBC said it paid just £1 for the SVB's UK arm. Speaking to the BBC, HSBC boss Noel Quinn said the deal had been "too good an opportunity to miss" and had ensured "a crisis in one institution did not become a systemic crisis". Silicon Valley Bank - which specialised in lending to technology companies - was shut down by US regulators on Friday in what was the largest failure of a US bank since 2008.
Japanese billionaire Masatoshi Ito, who helped turn 7-Eleven convenience stores into a global business empire, has died aged 98. He died last Friday from old age, operator Seven & i Holdings said in a statement. "We would like to express our sincere gratitude to him for his kindness during his lifetime," the firm said. There are more than 83,000 7-Eleven stores around the world, with a quarter of them located in Japan. In 1956, Mr Ito took over a small Tokyo apparel store business that had been run by his uncle then half-brother. Mr Ito later renamed it Ito-Yokado and turned the business into a chain of one-stop stores that sold everything from groceries to clothes. It went public in 1972. Around the same time, an executive at Ito-Yokado, Toshifumi Suzuki, spotted a 7-Eleven store during a visit to the US.
A dictator's corrupt  daughter who moonlighted as a pop star and diplomat spent £200m on properties from London to Hong Kong, a report has found. Gulnara Karimova used UK companies to buy homes and a jet with funds obtained through bribery and corruption, the Freedom For Eurasia study says. It adds that accounting firms in London and the British Virgin Islands acted for UK companies involved in the deals. The story raises fresh doubts about the UK's efforts to tackle illegal wealth. British authorities have long been accused of not doing enough to prevent criminals from overseas using UK property to launder money. The report says the ease with which Karimova obtained UK property was "concerning". There is no suggestion that those acting for the companies linked to her were aware of any connection to her nor that the source of funds could have been suspicious. No-one who provided those services in the UK has been investigated or fined.
Saudi oil giant Aramco has announced a record profit of $161. 1bn (£134bn) for 2022, helped by soaring energy prices and bigger volumes. It represents a 46. 5% rise for the state-owned company, compared with last year. It is the latest energy firm to report record profits, after energy prices spiked following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. America's ExxonMobil made $55. 7bn, and Britain's Shell reported $39. 9bn. Aramco also declared a dividend of $19. 5bn for the October to December quarter of 2022, to be paid in the first quarter of this year. Most of that will go to the Saudi government, which owns nearly 95% of the shares in the company. Brent crude oil, the benchmark oil price, now trades at around $82 a barrel - though prices exceeded $120 a barrel last March, after Russia's invasion, and June.
Tesco suppliers have been told they will have to pay a new extra charge when the supermarket sells their products online. An email, seen by the BBC, warns suppliers could be penalised if they do not agree to the new "fulfilment fee". The retail giant said the new charges were essential to help it "shoulder the costs" of serving more customers shopping online. Business retail consultant Ged Futter said the move was "outrageous". Tesco did not specify the fees in its email but it is understood suppliers could face costs of 12p per item on branded goods and 5p for own-label products, irrespective of price point. Small businesses with a turnover of less than £250,000 would not have to pay the fee, but online sales through the company's wholesale Booker business would be included. In the email sent to its suppliers, Tesco said it had grown to become the UK's largest online grocery home shopping service and leading wholesale business.
Jobs growth in the US remained strong last month, as the world's largest economy continued to defy expectations of a slowdown. Employers added 311,000 jobs in February, more than expected, with bars and restaurants driving the gains. The unemployment rate edged higher, to 3. 6%, from 3. 4% in January, which had been the lowest rate since 1969. The US central bank is trying to cool the economy to ease the pressures pushing up prices. But the jobs market has been resilient, even as the bank raises interest rates to the highest levels since 2007. "Until jobs reports reflect reduced demand within the economy, officials are likely to decide that the inflation rate is running hot and needs to be cooled further," said Richard Flynn, managing director at Charles Schwab UK.
Young homeowners are most likely to be financially stretched as a result of higher mortgage rates, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said. An estimated 356,000 mortgage borrowers could face difficulties with repayments by July next year, the regulator said, with those aged 18 to 34 most affected. That is lower than its previous estimate in September which suggested 570,000 people could have problems. Competition has returned to the home loan market, lowering fixed rates.
The National Food Crime Unit (NFCU) is investigating potential food fraud involving pre-packed sliced beef which was labelled as British but came from South America and Europe. A supermarket in the UK has been forced to remove products from its shelves. The unit has declined to name the retailer or the supplier of the meat. Andrew Quinn, deputy chief of the NFCU, said it was not a food safety issue but a matter of food fraud, which it takes very seriously. The products include pre-packed sliced beef and deli products. Mr Quinn said: "The retailer was notified on the same day that we took action against the food business suspected of the fraud and immediately removed all affected products from their shelves. "The retailer continues to work closely and cooperatively with the NFCU investigation to progress the case against the supplier. This is not a food safety issue but a matter of food fraud. "
Energy giant EDF has announced plans to extend the lives of two of the UK's five remaining nuclear power stations. Heysham 1 and Hartlepool had been due to close in March next year, but they will now be kept open until early 2026. The company says the move will support energy security, reduce demand for imported gas, and reduce carbon emissions. About 1,400 people work at the two sites, with hundreds more in the supply chain. The government welcomed the news, with Secretary of State Grant Shapps saying Russia's invasion of Ukraine demonstrated the "vital importance" of bolstering energy security. Heysham 1 and Hartlepool began operating in 1983. Each has two Advanced Gas Cooled reactors, which were originally scheduled for closure in 2014. Two previous lifetime extensions had taken the closure date to March 2024. The two power stations currently account for about 5% of the country's electricity.
The Birmingham to Crewe leg of high speed railway HS2 will be delayed by two years to cut costs. The government suggested Euston station's opening could also be delayed as an "affordable" design is worked on. Transport secretary Mark Harper blamed soaring prices and said he was "committed" to the line linking London, the Midlands and North of England. HS2 has been beset by delays and cost rises. In 2010, it was expected to cost £33bn but is now expected to be £71bn. Mr Harper said "significant inflationary pressure" and increased project costs meant the government was to "rephase construction by two years". He said the decision had been "difficult" but that it was part of "controlling inflation and reducing government debt". Mark Thurston, chief executive of HS2 Ltd, recently told the BBC that he and the government were examining the phasing of the build and the timing. John Foster from business group CBI said the delay would harm investor confidence in the rail sector.
A chicken processing factory employing 730 people will close on the 31 March, its owner has said. Poultry giant 2 Sisters announced plans in January to shut its premises at Llangefni, Anglesey. It said a consultation with unions and staff was at the point where "it is unlikely any viable alternative to closure will come forward". The firm said it was trying to move staff to roles in its wider business. "Clearly this is very upsetting news for all parties concerned and a very difficult time for everyone at the factory," a spokesman for the Llangefni site said. "We are hopeful we can update stakeholders in the coming weeks with some positive news on our efforts to redeploy colleagues within our wider business, as well as helping them find suitable opportunities outside the company," the statement added.
Struggling parents are set to get more help with childcare as the government tries to boost the number of workers. The plan is part of a comprehensive strategy to get hundreds of thousands of workers back into the workforce. The strategy - set to be announced at Wednesday's Budget - will include more funding for childcare, thought to be focused on people on Universal Credit. Currently those eligible for this support pay upfront and then claim a refund. This form of support has been frozen for several years, and has fallen well behind the surging cost of care. The BBC understands that an advertising campaign encouraging older workers who have left the workforce since the pandemic to return could also be launched.
Former Shell boss Ben van Beurden received a pay package of £9. 7m last year, up more than 50% from 2021. His pay was revealed in the oil and gas giant's annual report and accounts. Shell reported the highest annual profits in its 115-year history last year after a surge in energy prices following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Massive profits made by energy firms have added to pressure to tax them more as households struggle with rising energy bills. Shell made a record $39. 9bn (£32. 2bn) profit in 2022, double the previous year's total. When its results came out in February, opposition parties said the company's profits were "outrageous" and that the government was letting energy firms "off the hook" on taxation.
Carmaker BMW is preparing to invest up to £600m in its Mini plant at Cowley, near Oxford, the BBC understands. The money is expected to be used to prepare the plant for a future building electric models. The government has offered support worth £75m to BMW. The first generation of electric Minis was launched at the Cowley plant in 2019. The original model was based on an existing design, converted to run with an electric motor and batteries. But last year, the company announced production of most of its electric cars would move to China, to be built by a joint venture between BMW and Great Wall Motor. One electric model, the Countryman, would built at Leipzig, in Germany. At the time, BMW suggested that building both conventionally fuelled and electric cars in the same factory was inefficient.
JP Morgan Chase (JPMC) is suing former top executive Jes Staley over his links to sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. The Wall Street giant alleges Mr Staley failed to disclose potentially damaging ties to the late sex trafficker. A lawyer for Mr Staley declined to comment when contacted by the BBC. JPMC is facing lawsuits from the US Virgin Islands and an unnamed woman alleging that it aided Epstein's sex trafficking by allowing him to remain as one of its clients. The bank is attempting to make Mr Staley liable for any penalties it might face if it is found to have helped Epstein's sex trafficking crimes in the two lawsuits. The lawsuits allege that Mr Staley "personally observed" Epstein abusing trafficked women and "spent time with young girls" he met through the disgraced financier, JPMC said in a Manhattan federal court filing on Wednesday.
Heathrow Airport has been told to cut passenger charges for airlines next year, in a move that should feed through to ticket prices. The Civil Aviation Authority decided lower charges were required due to passenger numbers recovering quicker after the height of the pandemic. Passenger charges are paid by airlines and go towards costs for terminals runways, baggage systems and security. The average charge per passenger at Heathrow for 2023 is £31. 57. But the regulator said this will fall to £25. 43 in 2024 and "remain broadly flat" until the end of 2026. Although, the charges are paid by airlines, they can impact flight prices if companies decide to pass on some costs onto passengers via airfares. It is understood bosses at Heathrow wanted charges to actually increase to more than £40, while airlines proposed they should be no more than around £18. 50.

Twitter chief executive Elon Musk has apologised over an exchange he had on the platform with an employee. It came after worker Halli Thorleifsson tweeted to Mr Musk saying: "Your head of HR is not able to confirm if I am employed or not". Mr Musk responded by asking: "What work have you been doing? " After a series of follow up questions and answers Mr Thorleifsson said he received an email confirming that he had been fired. Mr Musk followed that Twitter conversation with a tweet on Tuesday describing Mr Thorleifsson as "the worst" before deleting it. But in an apparent change of heart, Mr Musk took to the platform a few hours later to apologise - and appeared to offer Mr Thorleifsson his job back. "I would like to apologise to Halli for my misunderstanding of his situation. It was based on things I was told that were untrue or, in some cases, true, but not meaningful. ".
Greggs plans to open around 150 new bakeries in 2023 as part of major plans to expand. The firm, which opened its first shop in Newcastle in 1951, also plans to extend the opening hours of some outlets and test 24-hour drive-thrus. It comes after the chain posted bumper profits for 2022, despite cost of living pressures hitting consumers. The bakery chain has put up its prices several times in the last few years blaming rising costs. Under the new plans Greggs, which currently has around 2,300 shops, aims to open more branches in airports, train stations, supermarkets and shopping centres. It also said it hoped to grow its total number of bakeries to over 3,000 in the coming years.
Heavy rains, which were blamed for some food shortages in Australia, have also given crop exports a boost. The country's farmers are predicted to see their most valuable year ever. Agricultural exports are forecast to hit a record $75bn (£62. 3bn) in the year to the end of June, according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics (ABARES). The Ukraine war has pushed up the price of goods including wheat, Australia's biggest agricultural export. "We have been incredibly lucky. That high level of production is certainly due to rains, but also having rains at the right time," Tony Bacic, director of the La Trobe Institute for Agriculture and Food in Melbourne, told the BBC. "The stars were aligned. If the rains had come a bit later or hadn't dried out in time, we could have lost a major crop," he added.
The Business group boss of one of the UK's largest business groups has stepped aside while an investigation takes place into misconduct  complaints about his conduct at work. The CBI said it took all matters of workplace conduct "extremely seriously", but would not comment further until the probe was complete. In a tweet, Tony Danker said he was "mortified" to hear that he had caused "offence or anxiety to any colleague". "It was completely unintentional, and I apologise profusely," he wrote. The CBI said it was first made aware of an allegation regarding Mr Danker's workplace conduct involving a female employee in January. It said it had investigated this "thoroughly" at the time and "dealt with it comprehensively". It said it decided at the time decided that the issue did not require escalation to a disciplinary process.
Costa Coffee is to give its staff their third pay rise in a year, as rivals make similar moves amid a labour shortage. The increase will apply to about 16,000 of Costa's UK workers. The pay increase will be between 6. 1% and 7. 3% from 1 April, depending on experience and location. The announcement comes days after Pret A Manger said it was giving its staff a similar pay rise within the same time frame. Costa Coffee has around 1,520 company-owned branches across the UK. The coffee chain said the increase meant that all its staff would be paid at least £10. 70 per hour - up from £10 - and amounts to a year-on-year increase of around 14% by the time the pay rise is implemented. The UK has been suffering a shortage of workers, attributed to long-term sickness after the pandemic and a lack of foreign workers to help fill available roles.
Apple's iPhone  biggest supplier Foxconn says its revenue last month slump by 11. 65% compared to the same period in 2022 due to weaker demand for electronics. However, February revenue was more than $13bn (£10. 8bn), the second highest figure on record for the month. Foxconn added that operations at the world's biggest iPhone factory in the Chinese city of Zhengzhou are recovering from Covid disruptions. Also over the weekend the firm said it was exploring opportunities in India. Foxconn said in a statement on Sunday that revenue from computing, smart consumer electronics and cloud and networking products declined in February from a year earlier "due to conservative customers' pull-in". "Based on the revenue performance in the first two months, the outlook for first quarter 2023 is roughly in line with market expectation," the company added. In November, Apple warned that shipments of its new iPhone 14 would be delayed after Chinese officials locked down a district in Zhengzhou where Foxconn's mega-factory is located.
The government's food tsar has blamed Britain's "weird supermarket culture" for shortages of certain vegetables. Henry Dimbleby said "fixed-price contracts" between supermarkets and suppliers meant that when food is scarce, some producers sell less to the UK and more elsewhere in Europe. But the body that represents supermarkets denied that business was hampered by such contracts. Several supermarkets have limited sales of fresh produce in recent weeks. Tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers are among those vegetables in scarce supply, largely because of extreme weather affecting harvests in Spain and North Africa. Shortages are said to have been compounded by high energy prices impacting UK growers, as well as issues with supply chains. They also come as households are being hit by rising prices, with food inflation at a 45-year high.
A market town that is having a £8. 5m revamp could have further improvements made to its centre. West Northamptonshire Council said Abington and Fish Street, in the heart of Northampton, could be redeveloped to improve the appearance and paving. The plans could "positively revitalise one of the busiest commercial and pedestrian routes through the town's main shopping street", it said. New seating, planting and outdoor dining space could be installed. It would "complement the wider regeneration of the town centre", including the £8. 5m Market Square revamp and "provide enhanced connectivity with the rest of the town", the council added.
From 3 April, first class stamps will increase by 15p to £1. 10, while second class stamps will rise by 7p to 75p. Royal Mail said the increases were needed to ensure the "one-price-goes-anywhere Universal Service remains sustainable". But Citizens Advice said nobody should be paying more for a "subpar service" and called for the regulator to act. The price increases will come in the day before the first stamps with the image of King Charles go on general sale. Royal Mail said the changes had been subject to "careful consideration" with letter volumes down 25% since the pandemic and with the business facing rising costs. "We appreciate that many businesses and households are facing a challenging economic environment and we are committed to keeping our prices affordable," said Nick Landon, chief commercial officer at Royal Mail.
Flood defence works in a Cumbrian town could hit local firms' trade and force them to cut jobs, a businessman has warned. The installation of a pumping station at Appleby's Broad Close car park is set to see the facility closed for 17 months. Kyle McRae, director of a firm which runs a pub and holiday cottages, fears it will drive customers away. The Environment Agency said it was looking to reduce the closure length. The scheme is aimed at helping protect about 60 properties in the Chapel Street and Holme Street area by pumping water into the River Eden.
High Street retailer WH Smith has been hit by a cyber-attack, with hackers accessing some of its workers' data. Data that may have been breached includes names, addresses, National Insurance numbers and dates of birth of the firm's current and former UK staff. However, its website, customer accounts and customer databases are not affected, WH Smith said. The company said it had launched an investigation and had told the relevant authorities of the incident. "WH Smith takes the issue of cyber-security extremely seriously and investigations into the incident are ongoing," it said. "We are notifying all affected colleagues and have put measures in place to support them. " It added: "There has been no impact on the trading activities of the group. Our website, customer accounts and underlying customer databases are on separate systems that are unaffected by this incident. "
Building materials giant CRH is planning to move its main share listing from the UK to the US, in a further blow to the London stock market. The Ireland-based firm said North America now accounted for about three-quarters of its earnings and was likely to be "a key driver of future growth". The move is likely to add to concerns that the UK's stock market is losing out to overseas rivals. Reports suggest UK tech firm Arm may also list its shares in New York. Chip designer Arm used to be a member of the FTSE 100 share index of top UK firms, but was bought by Japanese conglomerate Softbank in 2016. Recently, Softbank has been looking to list Arm's shares after a planned sale to US firm Nvidia fell through. The UK government has reportedly been lobbying hard for the company to choose the London stock market.
Starbucks illegally fired six workers in New York state in a pushback against unions, a US National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) judge has ruled. The judge says the firm committed "egregious and widespread" violations of federal labour law at its stores in cities of Buffalo and Rochester. The coffee chain has been ordered to rehire the ex-workers and compensate others who were affected. In response, Starbucks said its actions were lawful and in line with policies. "We believe the decision and the remedies ordered are inappropriate given the record in this matter and are considering all options to obtain further legal review," Starbucks told the BBC. In a more than 200 page decision, Michael A Rosas, who is a federal administrative law judge, also ordered Starbucks to rehire another worker that he ruled had been illegally forced out of their job. Mr Rosas said Starbucks had showed "a general disregard for the employees' fundamental rights" in response to union campaigns.
Interest rates may need to go up again to slow the cost of living down, Bank of England boss Andrew Bailey has said. Mr Bailey said raising rates higher may be "appropriate" to control inflation but said nothing was decided yet. Raising interest rates helps to control price rises by making it more expensive to borrow money. People tend to borrow less, spend less and save more. The next rate decision is on 23 March and Mr Bailey said the Bank would assess the latest data before deciding. "I would caution against suggesting either that we are done with increasing Bank Rate, or that we will inevitably need to do more," Mr Bailey said at an event hosted by public relations firm Brunswick Group. "Some further increase in Bank Rate may turn out to be appropriate, but nothing is decided. The incoming data will add to the overall picture of the economy and the outlook for inflation, and that will inform our policy decisions. "
Energy firms will begin writing to customers within days to warn them of bill increases from the start of April. Firms have to give customers reasonable notice of price rises or changes that will leave them worse off, according to Citizens Advice. Typical household energy bills are set to rise to £3,000 per year next month. The BBC understands the government is reviewing the level of energy support it gives households amid warnings many more could face difficulties. It comes after Energy Secretary Grant Shapps said he was "very sympathetic" to the idea that the government should stop the rise in annual energy bills. At the moment, the government is limiting the typical household bill to £2,500 a year, plus a £400 winter discount, which will also end from April. But from 1 April the help will be scaled back pushing bills up.
An old college building in the Borders is set to be demolished to make way for new homes. Eildon Housing intends to lodge the plans for the former Borders College site on Melrose Road in Galashiels. The building has been empty for many years and is in poor condition which means it will have to be brought down as part of the project. The plans would see 46 new homes available for social rent put up in its place. Nile Istephan, of Eildon Housing, said it had been delighted to acquire what he called a "key site in the heart of Galashiels". "There is a high need for affordable housing and this proposal is the next step in working with the planning department on a range of housing options which meet the needs of the local community," he said.
Plans to expand London Luton Airport and increase passenger numbers from 18 million to 32 million a year have been submitted. Luton Rising, the Luton Council company that owns the airport, said it could generate £1. 5bn per year and create thousands of new jobs. But anti-noise campaigners have called the expansion plans "tragic". An application for a development consent order has been submitted to the government's Planning Inspectorate. The expansion plans include new terminal capacity, an extension to the current airfield platform and new airside and landside facilities.
Scottish investment house Abrdn has agreed to sell its discretionary fund management arm to a Liechtenstein-based private bank for £140m. The sale of Abrdn Capital to LGT is expected to complete in the second half of 2023. The deal will involve the transfer of about £6. 1bn in assets under management, and about 140 employees. The sale does not include Abrdn's managed portfolio service, which is currently part of Abrdn Capital. The Aberdeen-based company said that part of the business was "better aligned" to its group strategy and would be carved out and retained. Abrdn chief executive Stephen Bird said the deal represented "an important step forward in our strategy to focus on our high-growth, platform-led businesses".
Japanese advertising giant Dentsu Group and five other companies have been indicted over alleged bid-rigging of contracts for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. It comes after regulators filed criminal complaints against the firms and seven unnamed individuals. The announcement follows months of investigations into alleged corruption in the planning and sponsorship of Olympics and Paralympics events. Tokyo-based Dentsu is Japan's biggest advertising agency. On Tuesday, Dentsu said in a statement that it "takes the situation seriously and offers its sincere apologies to its business partners, shareholders, and all other relevant parties for any inconvenience or concern this may cause. " The company added that a former employee of the group, who now works for one of its subsidiaries, had been indicted "for an alleged violation of the Antimonopoly Act in connection to the bidding for the test events of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. "
Newcastle City Council says it will "assess its options" over prominent building projects left in limbo by the collapse of construction firm Tolent. The Gateshead-based company went into administration earlier this month with more than 300 jobs lost. Its projects in Newcastle included the revamp of Central Station and the nearby Pattern Shop, as well as new housing in West Denton. The council said it would "endeavour to keep disruption to a minimum". Tolent, based at Team Valley with offices in Shotton Colliery, County Durham, Stockton and Leeds, had been working on developments including the £85. 5m Milburngate in Durham, which administrators called "significantly loss-making".
The closure of a chicken factory that employs 730 people is going ahead, the Welsh government has said. In January poultry giant 2 Sisters announced plans to shut its premises at Llangefni, Anglesey. The Welsh government has now said the company has put forward "no viable plans", and is "moving ahead with plans to cease production". 2 Sisters said it was "exploring every avenue" to help and support its workforce. After announcing the closure in January, the firm said it would speak with employees to explore the options before making final decisions. The firm has previously said the factory is old, one of its smallest sites, and that products could be made more efficiently elsewhere. A 2 Sisters review of the site, which it bought in 2013, described it as "not sustainable" and lacking space to be efficient, despite £5m being invested there.
One of the smaller unions involved in the rail dispute has voted to accept a settlement offer with train companies. The Transport Salaried Staffs' Association (TSSA) said its 3,000 members had accepted an offer including a two-year 9% pay deal. The Rail Delivery Group (RDG), which represents rail firms, called the move a "positive breakthrough". In December, the TSSA had accepted Network Rail's offer to settle its dispute with that company. The TSSA is smaller than both the RMT and Aslef unions, which are still in dispute with the rail companies over pay, job cuts and changes to terms and conditions. The TSSA said the two-year pay deal would mean a 5% increase in 2022/2023 or a minimum or £1,750, whichever is the greater, and a further 4% the following year.
Streaming giant Netflix has cut prices in more than 30 countries as it attempts to attract more subscribers. Prices have been cut in parts of Asia, Europe, Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East. It comes as the rising cost of living sees households tightening their belts and Netflix faces increased competition from rival services. "Members have never had more choices when it comes to entertainment," a company spokesperson told the BBC. Countries in which subscription charges have been lowered include Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Croatia, Venezuela, Kenya and Iran. The cuts apply to certain price plans, with subscription charges falling by half in some cases. The company did not name the UK or the US as countries where it had cut its prices.
Shortages of some fruit and vegetables could last for up to a month, the environment secretary has said. Therese Coffey's comment came after Asda, Morrisons, Aldi and Tesco placed limits on items such as tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers. Speaking in the Commons, Ms Coffey told MPs she anticipated "the situation will last about another two to four weeks". Ministers were talking to retailers about how to avoid such problems in the future, she added. Shops and suppliers say the shortages have been caused largely by bad weather in southern Europe and Africa. Responding to an urgent question in the House of Commons, Ms Coffey said: "We anticipate the situation will last about another two to four weeks. "It is important that we try and make sure that we get alternative sourcing options. "
High energy costs have forced one of the UK's biggest cucumber firms to reduce production despite salad item shortages in supermarkets. Tony Montalbano from Green Acre Salads in Roydon, Essex, said he will be growing fewer crops and start later in the year. Asda, Morrisons, Aldi and Tesco have placed limits on items such as tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers. Mr Montalbano said he was "trying to find ways of saving" money.
The company is a leading supplier of mini cucumbers to British supermarkets. Mr Montalbano said for the second year running he had planted two seasons of crops rather than the usual three to avoid the higher winter months growing costs. "Three seasons ago there would be a full crop and harvesting [at this time of year]," he said.
The steel industry has raised concerns that more jobs could be cut before any government support for electricity bills kicks in. Gareth Stace, director general of industry body UK Steel, said British Steel's decision to axe 260 jobs could be the start of a trend in the sector. The government has set out plans to reduce electricity costs for energy-intensive industries from next year. Electricity costs have soared for firms which make steel, paper and chemicals. The government has proposed changes it said would bring the energy costs of the UK's energy-intensive industries in line with those charged in other major economies. Some 300 firms - which employ 400,000 workers - that make steel, paper, chemicals and other metals stand to benefit from the changes, which would see them exempt form certain costs and taxes. Business and Trade Secretary Kemi Badenoch said the support would mean those industries "remain competitive on the world stage".
Japanese motor industry giants Toyota and Honda say they have agreed to give their workers in the country the biggest pay rises in decades. They are the latest firms in the world's third largest economy to increase wages as prices jump. Official figures published last month showed Japan's rate of inflation was at its highest level in over 40 years. That has put pressure on businesses and authorities to help people as their spending power shrinks. Each year Japanese firms typically hold pay talks with unions for weeks before announcing their decisions around the middle of March. The car makers have not said why this year's announcements were made earlier than usual.
Tesco is the latest supermarket to introduce limits on sales of certain fruit and vegetables due to shortages of fresh produce. It follows similar moves by Aldi, Asda and Morrisons, with other supermarkets also said to be facing problems after extreme weather hit harvests abroad. Tesco is putting limits of three per customer on sales of tomatoes, peppers and cucumbers. However, Sainsbury's, Lidl, Waitrose and M&S have not announced any limits. Pictures of empty shelves at various supermarkets have been circulating on social media in recent days. The shortages are largely the result of extreme weather in Spain and north Africa, which has affected harvests, according to the UK government. A significant proportion of the fruit and vegetables consumed by the UK at this time of year come from those regions.
Broadband should be made more accessible to people on benefits by encouraging them to use discounted deals designed for them, experts say. They told the Lords Digital Committee's digital exclusion hearings that cutting VAT on broadband could help people who struggle with "digital exclusion". Rocio Concha, of consumer group Which? , urged action to get more people on benefits using cheaper social tariffs. The government has called on firms to raise awareness of the deals. The high cost of living continued to put household budgets under strain, resulting in more people being "pushed" into digital exclusion, chairwoman Baroness Stowell said in her opening remarks.
The Mormon Church, officially known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS), and its investment firm will pay out $5m (£4. 1m) over claims they hid a huge cache of shares. The LDS and its investment firm, Ensign Peak Advisers, used "shell" companies to hide a $32bn stock portfolio, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) said. Ensign Peak will pay a $4m penalty and the Church will pay $1m. Neither has admitted any wrongdoing. "We allege that the LDS church's investment manager, with the church's knowledge, went to great lengths to avoid disclosing the church's investments, depriving the commission and the investing public of accurate market information," Gurbir Grewal, director of the SEC's division of enforcement, said in a statement.
The world's largest coffee chain Starbucks says it is launching a line of olive oil-infused drinks in Italy. Chief executive Howard Schultz says olive oil's "unexpected, velvety, buttery flavour. . . enhanced the coffee and lingers beautifully on the palate. " Starbucks is among the major US businesses that have faced obstacles as they tried to expand into the Italian food and drinks market. Italy's coffee scene is famous for its independent and often family-run cafes. Starbucks currently has around 20 stores in the country. "Now, there's going to be people who say, olive oil in coffee? But the proof is in the cup," Mr Schultz said on the company's website. "In over 40 years, I can't remember a moment in time where I've been more excited, more enthused," he added.
Asda and Morrisons are putting limits on purchases of some fruit and vegetables as supermarkets face shortages of fresh produce. Asda said it was capping sales of items such as tomatoes, peppers and lettuce at three each per customer. Morrisons said limits of two on products like cucumbers would be introduced at stores from Tuesday. However, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Lidl, Aldi, Waitrose and Marks & Spencer currently do not have limits in place. Pictures of empty supermarket shelves have been circulating on social media, after shoppers found it hard to get some items in recent days. The shortages - which are affecting Ireland too - are largely the result of extreme weather in Spain and north Africa, where floods, snow and hail have affected harvests. During this time of year, a significant proportion of what the UK consumes usually comes from those regions.
Pret-a-Manger has said it will stop making smoothies, frappes and milkshakes in another blow to its UK customers and drinks subscribers. The chain had previously received thousands of complaints that not all drinks included in its £25-a-month subscription service were available. Now the blended drinks, which can be more expensive and take longer to make, will be phased out altogether. Pret said they would be replaced by iced drinks by the summer. Blenders were being removed to make way for new ice machines, in what Pret called "the biggest drinks innovation in more than five years". Smoothies and frappes will still be available in select shops until 29 May, it said.
Essex's famous Maldon Sea Salt firm said it can now double production after its expansion plans were approved. Maldon District Council granted permission for a new headquarters, packaging and distribution centre, at Oval Park in Langford. Production currently takes place in Goldhanger and salt is stored and checked at its Wycke Hill site before export to more than 60 countries. The company said it was on an "ambitious growth trajectory".

Supplies of some fruit and vegetables, including tomatoes, to UK supermarkets have been disrupted by poor weather in Europe and Africa. The British Retail Consortium (BRC) said that harvests had been hit by "difficult weather conditions". Numerous pictures of empty shelves in supermarkets have been circulating on social media in recent days. Sources within the industry have acknowledged that there have been temporary supply challenges. Among the images shared on social media, the shortage of tomatoes appears to be particularly significant. A significant proportion of the tomatoes we consume over the winter months are grown in Morocco and Southern Spain. Both regions have recently been affected first by warm weather - which affected crop yields - then by a cold snap which has meant longer growth times.
Russia's economy shrank last year by less than had been expected given its invasion of Ukraine, figures suggest. The economy contracted by 2. 1%, according to the country's statistics agency, but this was less than an earlier prediction of a 12% fall. While questions have been raised about the reliability of the data, many commentators have been surprised at the Russian economy's resilience. High oil prices and military spending have helped to support the economy. After the invasion, hundreds of Western firms withdrew from Russia. The initial shock forced the stock market in Russia to close temporarily and saw the rouble tumble as people queued up at cash machines. The Institute for International Finance had predicted the Russian economy would shrink by 15% in 2022 and last March, US President Joe Biden said it was "on track to be cut in half".
Afghanistan's Taliban government says it will turn some former foreign military bases into economic zones for businesses. Afghanistan has faced a deepening economic and humanitarian crisis since the Taliban regained control of the country in August 2021. Foreign military forces had been in the country for two decades. The decision was announced by acting deputy prime minister for economic affairs Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. "It was decided that the Ministry of Industry and Commerce should progressively take control of the remaining military bases of the foreign forces with the intention of converting them into special economic zones," Mullah Baradar said in a statement on Sunday. He added that the project will begin with sites in the capital of Kabul and the northern Balkh province but did not give further details.
Elon Musk's electric car maker Tesla has denied firing employees in response to a group of workers trying to form a union in New York state. The company said it had laid off 27 staff for "poor performance" and that they "were identified. . . well before the union campaign was announced". Organisers in the city of Buffalo alleged staff were sacked a day after the union went public with its plans. They accused Tesla of firing more than 30 people to try to quash the campaign. Tesla said in a blog post that the decision to lay off the workers, who were part of a 675-strong Autopilot labelling team, had been made on 3 February. The firm said it only learned in hindsight that one of the 27 impacted employees "officially identified as part of the union campaign".
Fast food chain McDonald's is putting the price of five of its menu items up as cost of living pressures continue to squeeze struggling households. It said higher food and energy costs mean it will put up its prices from Wednesday. Last summer the fast food giant put up the price of a cheeseburger for the first time in more than 14 years. Soaring inflation around the world hasn't dented McDonald's sales, which grew last year by more than 10%. McDonald's said it was committed to "affordable prices". "However, like many businesses, the impact of the increase in food and energy costs continues to affect our company and our franchisees. ".
The German-owned supermarket chain Aldi has announced plans to create 6,000 new jobs in the UK this year. The staff will be recruited for its distribution centres, as well as a number of new stores including in Norwich and Newcastle. Aldi has 990 stores and 40,000 staff in Britain and last year overtook Morrisons to become the UK's fourth-largest supermarket chain. It said it had attracted 1. 3 million new customers in the past three months. Its store assistants receive a starting pay of £11. 00 an hour in most parts of the UK and £12. 75 within the M25. Warehouse staff get a minimum starting salary of £13. 18 an hour. Aldi store managers have salaries of up to £63,000 a year. Aldi's Richard Thornton told the BBC the company "prides itself" on paying well and "prioritising value".
Thousands more people have started selling things in online marketplaces to help pay ever growing bills. Sites like Facebook Marketplace and eBay have seen an increase in the number of individual sellers. They put this down to the increased cost of living. Sarah Bryant, head of small businesses at eBay UK, said: "Some are like you and me, the average Joe, who just want to sell some of their items to make a bit of side-money. "It goes all the way through to those side hustles that are growing and growing until they become people's full time jobs. " Sami Cirant is one of the so-called "side-hustle sellers". From his parents' home in Easton, Bristol, he buys and sells high-end trainers, or sneakers as his customers call them.
A popular brand of almond milk has been recalled in Australia's most populous state after it was linked to a case of botulism. Food safety officials say the recall of Inside Out Unsweetened Almond Milk in New South Wales (NSW) is "due to potential biotoxin contamination". It comes after a person was admitted to hospital after consuming the product. The toxin that causes botulism can be extremely dangerous and has been linked to life-threatening illnesses. Inside Out Nutritious Goods, which produces the almond milk, told the BBC that it "takes any potential food contamination issue extremely seriously. " "As soon as we were informed of a potential contamination issue, we commenced a voluntary recall and have been providing every assistance to the relevant authorities," the company added.
Major computer chip equipment maker ASML says a former employee in China stole information about its technology. The Dutch firm says it has since reported the breach to authorities in the Netherlands and the US. However, the company added that it does not "believe that the misappropriation is material to our business. " ASML is one of the most important firms in the global microchip supply chain. It makes machines that produce the world's most advanced chips. Chips, or semiconductors, which are used to power everything from mobile phones to military hardware, are at the centre of a bitter dispute between the US and China. "We have experienced unauthorised misappropriation of data relating to proprietary technology by a (now) former employee in China," ASML said in its latest annual report.
More than 200 flights were cancelled at Frankfurt airport after construction work damaged broadband cables and caused check-in and boarding problems for German airline Lufthansa. But the airline said all of its systems were now back up. Earlier on Wednesday, thousands of passengers were stranded as their flights were cancelled or delayed across the world. The airline expect flights at Frankfurt to return to normal on Thursday. The company said engineering works on a railway line mistakenly cut a bundle of cables in Frankfurt on Tuesday. It has asked customers flying on domestic flights to book train tickets and said customers could ask for a refund on its website. "We are working on a solution swiftly," Lufthansa tweeted. More than a hundred flights have also been delayed, according to data from flight tracking website FlightAware.
Global sandwich chain Subway says it is exploring a possible sale of the business after almost six decades of family ownership. The firm has been growing rapidly for years but is now facing soaring costs and increased competition. A sale of the company could value it at more than $10bn (£8. 2bn), according to the Wall Street Journal, which first reported the story. Investment banking giant JP Morgan is advising Subway on the potential sale. Subway said that it does not plan to give any further updates on the process until it is completed and has not said how long it could take.
Adverts that suggested Huel meal replacement shakes could save people money on their food bills have been banned for being misleading. As the cost of living crisis hit, one Facebook ad claimed that "Huel helps keep money in your pockets". But Huel did not show its products were cheaper than traditional food, the Advertising Standards Authority said. The firm, which has pulled the ads, said it took its advertising responsibilities seriously. Huel was founded by entrepreneurs Julian Hearn and James Collier who named it by combining "human" and "fuel". It claims when mixed with water its powders provide "complete nutrition", are a healthy alternative to traditional meals and can "help you lose, gain, or maintain weight".
Usher will be the headline performer at the 2024 Super Bowl half-time show, it has been confirmed. The R&B star follows in the footsteps of Rihanna, whose dazzling set last February also functioned as the announcement of her pregnancy. "It's an honour of a lifetime to finally check a Super Bowl performance off my bucket list," said Usher. "I can't wait to bring the world a show unlike anything else they've seen from me before. " The singer was one of the biggest stars of the late 1990s and 2000s, with multi-platinum hits including You Make Me Wanna, Pop Ya Collar, Yeah! , Burn and Confessions Pt II. He previously played the Super Bowl in 2011, as a special guest of the lead act, Black Eyed Peas - where he performed a breathtaking leap over will. i. am before landing in the splits.
Hollywood Screenwriters in the US say they have reached a tentative deal with studio bosses that could see them end a strike that has lasted nearly five months. The Writers Guild of America (WGA) said it was "exceptional - with meaningful gains and protections for writers". WGA members must still have a final say. It is the longest strike to affect Hollywood in decades and has halted most film and TV production. A separate dispute involves actors, who are also on strike. The writers' walkout, which began on 2 May, has cost the US economy around $5bn (£4. 08m), according to an estimate from Milken Institute economist Kevin Klowden. The dispute has shut down many of America's top shows, including The Last of Us, Billions, Stranger Things, The Handmaid's Tale, Hacks, Severance, Yellowjackets, Abbott Elementary and several daytime and late-night talk shows.
Comic Phil Wang has been reflecting on the impact his time at the University of Cambridge had on his career. The British-Malaysian comedian studied at King's College and was president of the Cambridge Footlights. "I got to practice so much of my comedy in the early days at Footlights and at the ADC Theatre," he told BBC Radio Cambridgeshire. wang furher says , "I couldn't ask for a better place to learn the ropes of comedy than Cambridge. " Wang will be bringing his comedy show Wang in There Baby to Cambridge Corn Exchange on 30 September. He will also visit other towns and cities, including St Albans, Northampton and Peterborough. The 33-year-old said he enjoyed revisiting Cambridge and it had some of his favourite audiences on tour.
French rapper MHD has been given a 12-year jail term for the murder of a young man in Paris in 2018. A court in the capital found the 29-year-old MHD, real name Mohamed Sylla, guilty of involvement in the gang-related killing of Loic K, 23. The victim was knocked down by MHD's Mercedes, then beaten and stabbed to death by a crowd of about 12 people. MHD, who is known for blending trap and West African music to get "Afro trap", pleaded not guilty to the charges. "From the beginning, I have maintained my innocence in this case and I will continue to maintain my innocence," he told the packed court in Paris, AFP news agency reports. He denied being at the scene of the murder, arguing that the case against him was based on rumours. However, a local resident filmed the incident in the summer of 2018 from his window, and the car was quickly identified as belonging to MHD.
A collection of unicorn sculptures is on display for the final time. Unicornfest's Farewell Festival is taking place at Propyard in Bristol until Sunday. Over the summer, 60 of the mythical creatures crafted by artists were dotted around an art trail that spanned the city. At the Farewell Festival, a 61st unicorn will be revealed. Most of them will be auctioned off in October to raise funds for Leukaemia Care. Unicornfest is part of the 650th anniversary celebrations for Bristol, which seek to unite the business and creative sectors as well as local communities and schools across Bristol and the surrounding area. The auction house Auctioneum will manage the in-person, online and telephone bidding system in October, where 58 large unicorns and 40 foals are due to be auctioned.
Amazon is set to introduce adverts to its Prime Video streaming service in 2024 as it seeks to put more cash into creating TV shows and films. UK Prime customers, along with those in the US, Germany and Canada, will see ads early next year unless they subscribe for an "ad-free" option at an additional cost. In a statement, Amazon said Prime Video still offered "very compelling value". It follows similar moves by rivals including Disney+ and Netflix. Amazon said that the ads would be introduced across France, Italy, Spain, Mexico and Australia later in 2024. It will roll out the "ad-free" subscription tier for an extra $2. 99 (£2. 44) per month for Prime subscribers in the United States. Pricing for other countries will be announced at a later date, Amazon said.
The longest-serving radio presenter at BBC Essex said he felt a mixture of "sadness and excitement" about his final show after 37 years. Dave Monk reported from some of the most significant milestones in the county's history and interviewed famous names including Sir Tony Blair, Dame Vera Lynn and Sir Paul McCartney. He previously ran a law practice, owned a wine bar and performed in pantomime. Dave, 70, praised his colleagues and listeners in his final programme link. "Look after yourself, have a lot of fun, and don't forget, the more you laugh, the more you live. Goodbye," he finished. He played the song Goodbye-ee performed by Dudley Moore and Peter Cook and could not resist one final quip: "Think yourself lucky I didn't play the 12-inch version. "
Lizzo has been sued for the second time this year by a former employee who claims she oversaw an "unsafe, sexually charged workplace culture". Fashion designer Asha Daniels accused the star's wardrobe manager of making "racist and fatphobic" comments and mocking black women in the entourage. Lizzo was named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in LA on Thursday, but was not directly accused of harassment. A spokesperson for the star called the case an "absurd publicity stunt". In legal papers, Daniels said she was hired to work on Lizzo's tour in February 2023, but immediately found the environment to be "hostile" and "abusive". The 35-year-old claimed that dancers were frequently "forced to change in and out of their clothes" in full view of male crew-members, who would "lewdly gawk, sneer, and giggle" at them. She accused wardrobe manager Amanda Nomura of performing "an offensive stereotypical impression of a black woman" and referring to black female dancers as "fat," "useless" and "dumb".
Celebrities including Jodie Whittaker have contributed art to a charity auction that is now under way. Hitchin-born artist Sarah Graham started the fundraiser to raise money for North Herts & Stevenage Samaritans. She invited more than 170 celebrities, including James Bay, Joe Lycett and Kerry Ellis to paint campervan designs for the project entitled Samarivans. All the vans created by the artists are on display at Arkley Fine Art in Hitchin until 29 September. Describing her art, titled Time Van, the Doctor Who star said: "Time Van incorporates the colours of my Doctor's costume. The blue coat, yellow braces, pride rainbow and the number plate is 13 as I'm the 13th Doctor. " Within 24 hours of the auction beginning, Time Van had received about 75 bids, with the price reaching £2,000. Speaking to BBC Three Counties Radio, Ms Graham said Whittaker was "actually hoping to get the most bids by the end of the auction".
The parents of an 18-year-old dance teacher pay tribute who was due to open a dance school have said they are "completely devastated" by her death in a road accident crash. Hallie Colquhoun, from Corby, Northamptonshire, died after her Fiat 500 collided with a VW Tiguan SE near West Haddon on 12 September. She had spent months getting the "Inspire Dance Space" ready to open in Corby on 20 September. Her family said she made sure "everyone she met felt special. "
The Rock and John Cena have reacted to the WWE reportedly releasing at least 20 wrestlers from their contracts. Dolph Ziggler and Shelton Benjamin were among those let go by the company, which recently merged with UFC. The Rock, real name Dwayne Johnson, and Cena both paid tribute to Ziggler - who has reportedly performed in 1,554 matches for WWE over two decades. "Respect", said Cena, while The Rock added: "Can't wait to see what he (and everyone) does next. " Current WWE superstar Big E described Ziggler as "one of the smoothest workers I've ever been in the ring with". Ziggler, a two-time WWE World Champion, hasn't issued a public statement on his release. But Shelton Benjamin, a former intercontinental champion, thanked fans, fellow wrestlers and WWE staff in a statement.
The South Korean star Suga, a member of the phenomenally successful boy band BTS, has begun his mandatory military service, he confirmed on social media. The singer, whose real name is Min Yoon-gi, is the third member of the band to enlist, after Jin and J-Hope. "I will faithfully complete my duty and come back," he posted online. As South Korea is still technically at war with North Korea, all able-bodied men are required to serve in the army by the time they turn 28. For a long time, it was rumoured that the government might allow the members of BTS to skip the service, on the basis they had already served their country by bringing in billions of dollars, and it would be more beneficial to allow them to carry on doing so. But last October, all seven member announced they were all planning to enlist, with Jin, as the oldest, going first.
Three giant opera singing dolls are set to transform the streets of a seaside resort into an opera house. The singing divas in oversized dresses will parade through Weymouth accompanied by drumming toy soldiers. The Poupées Géantes trio will parade as they perform an hour of popular songs and opera melodies. They will move through the town from 20:00 BST on Friday and Saturday at 13:00 and 20:00, starting at New Bond Street and finishing at Brewers Quay. The oversized spectacle has been arranged by the resort's council and French theatre company Transe Express. The Poupées Géantes are the finale event of biennial outdoor arts festival Inside Out Dorset. The oversized spectacle has been arranged by the resort's council and French theatre company Transe Express. The Poupées Géantes are the finale event of biennial outdoor arts festival Inside Out Dorset.
Take That superfans have been sharing their excitement after the band announced an upcoming tour in 2024. Denise Coles and her stepson Joe Sheppard, both from Bristol, are hoping to get tickets for the Ashton Gate gig. The band have announced the "This Life" UK tour, in support of their upcoming ninth album of the same name. "When you're in your hometown and you've got that atmosphere, there's something different about it," Mr Sheppard said. The band's logo was projected on stadiums across the country on Wednesday night, sparking rumours a tour was about to be announced. Now, 29 tour dates across 15 cities have confirmed, coinciding with the release of their latest single, "Windows". Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen will be joined by support act, Olly Murs, on their final show of the tour at Ashton Gate, on 8 June 2024. The band last performed at the stadium in 2019 and, of course, Ms Coles and Mr Sheppard were both there.
Euphoria actor Angus Cloud died from an accidental overdose of fentanyl, cocaine, methamphetamine and other drugs, a coroner has confirmed. The star, who played Fez in the hit HBO series, died in July aged 25. The Alameda County Coroner's Office confirmed his cause of death to US media outlets on Thursday. They said he died from an "acute intoxication due to combined effects of methamphetamine, cocaine, fentanyl and benzodiazepines". Cloud's father had recently died, and the actor's family said he had "intensely struggled with this loss". He had attended the funeral in Ireland the week before he died from the accidental overdose at his family home in Oakland, California.
Strictly Come Dancing Star Amy Dowden has shaved her hair as part of her cancer treatment. The Welsh dancer shared an emotional video on Instagram showing her friends and family helping to cut her hair ahead of the shave. The 33-year-old was diagnosed with cancer for the second time in July and has been sharing her experiences on social media. "I wanted to share the truth and hopefully help others, and bring normality to a beautiful bald head," she said.
Northern Ireland's library service does not have the money to buy any new books this year. That is according to Libraries NI, the body responsible for running the library service. In a statement to BBC News NI, Libraries NI said it could not afford to buy new books due to a "significant funding gap" in its annual budget. A number of libraries also have had their opening hours reduced until the end of October to save money. Libraries NI is funded by the Department for Communities (DfC), which has previously warned that it was given £111m, or 15. 5%, less in day-to-day spending in its budget than it had asked for. Secretary of State Chris Heaton-Harris set the budget for Stormont departments for 2023/24 in the absence of an executive. Some departments, like education, subsequently had to make significant savings by ending or cancelling previously funded schemes.
Warner Bros Discovery has announced a major expansion of the UK studios where much of the Barbie movie was filmed. The project will see capacity of the Leavesden facility near London growing by more than 50%. It will create 4,000 "direct or indirect" jobs across the country, according to the media giant. Warner Bros also says the expanded studios will become a primary production hub for DC Studios, the home of Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman. The company also said the expansion would increase the value of its production in the UK by £200m a year, bringing it to £600m. The announcement was made during a visit to Los Angeles by Chancellor Jeremy Hunt. "Warner Bros Discovery's ambitious plan to grow its Leavesden studio is a huge vote of confidence in the UK," he said. Mr Hunt added that it means "British-made entertainment will continue to delight and entertain global audiences".
An exhibition of tapestries created by artist Grayson Perry exploring attitudes towards class is to open at Lincoln Museum. The Vanity of Small Differences is inspired by 18th Century painter William Hogarth's A Rake's Progress. Museum staff described the six artworks by the Turner Prize-winning artist as "almost like a massive comic strip". The hand-coloured tapestries will be on display in Lincoln from Saturday until January next year. Together, the tapestries tell the story of fictional character Tim Rakewell as he makes his way up through the British class system.
Selfie-takers in London are being asked to submit their pictures for inclusion in a new permanent artwork at Alexandra Palace. Artist Helen Marshall creates giant mosaics out of hundreds of smaller images of faces and has work displayed across the world. The new commission - By the People: 150 Lifetimes - is due to be on show from early 2024. It is one of a number of events to mark 150 years since 'Ally Pally' opened. Reopening in 1875, Victorian Londoners enjoyed festivals, fireworks, banquets, theatre and music at the venue. In 1900, an Act of Parliament placed the park and palace in public ownership, so it could remain "a place of public resort and recreation" forever.
Three Ukrainian choirs are coming together for the first time to perform in a concert in aid of their home country. The groups from Portsmouth, Petersfield and Havant will appear at the city's New Theatre Royal on Friday evening. Olena Ivanchuk helped set up the choirs after leaving Ukraine in 2022 when it was invaded by Russia. Money raised will go to Ukrainian charity Reduit, which provides medical supplies for the country's soldiers. Ms Ivanchuk said: "We have really high hopes for this concert because we are eager to support those in Ukraine. " The choirs have been meeting three times a week to share their love of singing and create a sense of support in the community.
British actress Sophie Turner has sued her singer ex-partner Joe Jonas - requesting he return their two children to their "habitual residence" England. The celebrity couple announced earlier this month that they were divorcing after more than four years of marriage. They described the split at the time as "amicable". However on Thursday, lawyers for Turner, 27, filed a legal petition citing the "wrongful detention" of their children in New York. The 34-year-old Jonas Brothers singer, who is American, is seeking joint custody of their two daughters - Willa, who was born in 2020 and their second child, who was born last year but whose name has not been released to the public. According to Turner's legal petition, which the BBC has seen, the couple had made England their "permanent home" in April. 
Fifty years ago this weekend, the Wigan Casino nightclub hosted the first of its legendary all-nighters, which made it the centre  of the Northern Soul scene. As midnight approached every Saturday, at a time when most people were going to bed, hundreds of young music fans - who had travelled in cars, coaches and trains from across the country - converged on a street in the middle of Wigan. "The two huge wide doors would have a queue forming right the way back down the road, with 500 to 1,000 people waiting to get in," recalls Richard Searling, one of the DJs in the club's heyday. "As soon as those doors opened, there'd be a flood of people. " Once inside, they went upstairs, paid the entry fee, passed through a set of double doors and entered the dance hall. There, "the wall of sound would hit you. "
Former House of Commons Speaker John Bercow is to star in the next series of the Traitors US. He will feature alongside other celebrities including Love Island's Ekin-Su Culculoglu and professional heavyweight boxer Deontay Wilder. Following the success of the British version last year, the first American series was made available on the BBC iPlayer as a box set. The American version is hosted by Scottish actor Alan Cumming. The murder-mystery gameshow sees several contestants chosen to become traitors capable of killing off rivals in a bid to secure a large cash prize. Studio Lambert, which makes the show, confirmed on social media the series is being filmed at the 19th Century Ardross Castle, in the Scottish Highlands, the same venue that hosts the British version. Unlike the UK version of the hit reality show, the American series includes celebrities, with Culculoglu, Mr Bercow and Wilder being joined by the likes of The Real Housewives of Miami's Larsa Pippen, Bling Empire star Kevin Kreider and Maksim Chmerkovskiy from Dancing With The Stars.
A woman has accused Russell Brand of exposing himself to her and then laughing about it minutes later on his BBC radio show. The woman says it happened in 2008 when she was working in the same building as the BBC in Los Angeles. The encounter left her stunned, she says. Minutes later, he was recorded laughing with his co-presenter who said Brand "showed his willy to a lady". Brand has not yet commented on the latest allegation. His co-presenter Matt Morgan told the BBC he was "not aware until now of the nature of this encounter". WARNING: This article contains explicit details and language that some might find offensive. It is the first time that Brand has been accused of sexual misconduct and then heard discussing it.
A drag artist said she was "absolutely devastated" after a van containing costumes and equipment for her stage show was stolen. Former Britain's Got Talent semi-finalist La Voix said the van, taken from Houghton Regis, Bedfordshire, contained equipment worth £30,000. She said she would continue with "the next couple" of dates on her tour and would then reassess the situation. Bedfordshire Police confirmed the van was reported stolen on Wednesday. La Voix said: "This is my livelihood and that of 10 others who work with me on the tour who rely on this to pay their bills, including my band who have had all their instruments stolen. "Everything is gone, including all of my wonderful costumes which people had worked on for months to pull together, everything… to see it all gone is just unbelievable. "
Selena Gomez has said being the most-followed woman on Instagram is "a big responsibility". The actress and singer Selena  says she's "never really cared" about numbers but that "it can be a little heavy". Selena made the comments, reported in The Hollywood Reporter, at Universal Music Group and Thrive Global's Music and Health Conference. Last year, she released a documentary about her health and mental wellbeing after being diagnosed with lupus. Selena has 429 million followers on Instagram - more than her bestie Taylor Swift who has 272 million and Kylie Jenner, the previous title holder, who is followed by 399 million people. The 31-year-old says fans have reached out to her about their own struggles to tell her how her music has helped them through difficult times.
Celebrated indie songwriter Sufjan Stevens says he has lost the ability to walk after being diagnosed with a rare auto-immune condition. Writing on Instagram, the musician said he was suffering from Guillain-Barre Syndrome, in which the body's immune system attacks the nerves. "Last month I woke up one morning and couldn't walk," he wrote. "My hands, arms and legs were numb and tingling and I had no strength, no feeling, no mobility. " The singer explained his brother drove him to hospital, where he was subjected to a barrage of tests, including MRIs, Cat Scans and a spinal tap, before doctors could diagnose his condition. Guillain-Barre Syndrome is estimated to affect about one person in 100,000 each year, and while the causes are unknown, patients often develop the condition after an infection.
DJ Chris Evans has told listeners he is now clear of skin cancer, eight weeks after he was first diagnosed. The Virgin Radio UK presenter, 57, revealed last month that doctors had caught it quickly meaning it was "as treatable as cancer can possibly be". In an on-air update on Wednesday, Evans said he had undergone surgery last week, and that surgeons had since given him the all-clear. He added he had barely slept since receiving an update from his surgeon. "I never thought for a second you could lose a night's sleep because of an email like this," he said on the show. Reading the email out loud, co-presenter Vassos Alexander quoted the surgeon as saying: "I have forwarded the pathology report. It is excellent news.
A community hub is providing free music lessons to young people to help them learn how to create and produce their own music. Kamlesh Parmar, 42, received lottery funding to create a new music studio on Hemmingwell housing estate in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire. The studio opened in the summer for children aged 12-16. Mr Parmar said he wanted to create "a safe space to express thoughts and feelings". Mr Parmar also works with a Northamptonshire Police-led project called My Back Yard (MY:BK:YD) that aims to combat gang-related crime and violence and point youngsters towards more positive choices and employment.
A sleepy town in southern Spain is in shock after it emerged that AI-generated naked images of young local girls had been circulating on social media without their knowledge. The pictures were created using photos of the targeted girls fully clothed, many of them taken from their own social media accounts. These were then processed by an application that generates an imagined image of the person without clothes on. So far more than 20 girls, aged between 11 and 17, have come forward as victims of the app's use in or near Almendralejo, in the south-western province of Badajoz. "One day my daughter came out of school and she said 'Mum there are photos circulating of me topless'," says María Blanco Rayo, the mother of a 14-year-old. "I asked her if she had taken any photos of herself nude, and she said, 'No, Mum, these are fake photos of girls that are being created a lot right now and there are other girls in my class that this has happened to as well. '".
A bitcoin scammer who was uncovered and prosecuted by his victims has been given a suspended prison sentence. Doede Osman Khan, 50, warned investors about online scams and said he would help them avoid falling prey to con artists while also making them money. But he stole thousands from people across the world, including Teesside and Canada, Teesside Crown Court heard. Khan, from Staffordshire, was jailed for 15 months suspended for 18 after admitting seven counts of fraud. He was prosecuted after victims investigated the man they knew as Danny Turner.
Campaigners are calling for governments around the world to treat child sex abuse as a global health emergency like Covid pandemic. A new UK-based institute, Childlight, says voluntary action by the tech sector has failed to halt an increase in the abuse of children worldwide. It argues the issue should be dealt with in the same way as a pandemic. It says there should be global co-operation between governments, law enforcement and the tech sector. Childlight is based in Edinburgh, where an international conference on child sexual abuse will be attended by 750 delegates from 70 countries next week. The institute plans to gather data from around the world to build an unprecedented picture of the extent and nature of child sexual exploitation and abuse.
Hong Kong police are investigating allegations of fraud against cryptocurrency trading platform JPEX after investors complained of HK$1. 3bn ($166m; £134m) in losses. Eleven people, including popular influencers, were arrested this week after complaints filed by 2,000 people. The case could be one of Hong Kong's biggest fraud cases, local media say. It also tests new financial regulations as Hong Kong positions itself as a global hub for virtual assets. Last week, Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) revealed the Dubai-based JPEX had been operating without a license for virtual asset trading. The platform, on the other hand, said it had "strived to comply" with the local requirement which took effect in June this year, but its efforts were "dismissed or sidestepped with official rhetoric" by the Commission.
Artificial intelligence could destabilise the world order unless governments act, the deputy prime minister is to warn. Oliver Dowden will tell the UN the pace of development risks outstripping governments' ability to make it safe. The UK will host a global summit to discuss AI regulation, in November. There are fears without rules AI could eventually destroy jobs, supercharge misinformation or entrench discrimination.


Former Labour leader Ed Miliband has said he now regrets giving an interview to Russell Brand during the 2015 general election campaign. In recent days, the comedian, actor and YouTube star has faced allegations of rape and sexual assault, which he strongly denies. Mr Miliband said he had agreed to the interview to encourage people to vote. But knowing what he did now, he "wouldn't have done that interview, and I regret doing it," he told the BBC. Speaking on Radio 4's Today programme, Mr Miliband, now Labour's shadow energy security and net zero secretary, said: "Russell Brand was rather notoriously going round saying people shouldn't vote because voting made no difference. "That's why I did an interview with him, because I wanted to get to the people who he was influencing to say voting does make a difference.
US authors George RR Martin and John Grisham are suing ChatGPT-owner OpenAI over claims their copyright was infringed to train the system. Martin is known for his fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire, which was adapted into HBO show Game of Thrones. ChatGPT and other large language models (LLMs) "learn" by analysing a massive amount of data often sourced online. The lawsuit claims the authors' books were used without their permission to make ChatGPT smarter. OpenAI said it respected the rights of authors, and believed "they should benefit from AI technology". Other prominent authors named in the complaint include Jonathan Franzen, Jodi Picoult and George Saunders. The case has been brought to the federal court in Manhattan, New York, by the Authors Guild, a trade group in the US working on behalf of the named authors.
Video site Rumble has hit out at a UK Parliamentary committee that asked if it would cut Russell Brand's income in the wake of sexual assault allegations. Dame Caroline Dinenage, chair of the House of Commons media committee, wrote to Rumble to say she was "concerned" that he could profit from his content. But Rumble said that was "an extremely disturbing letter" and that the company would not "join a cancel culture mob". Brand has strongly denied the allegations of rape and sexual assault. The star has 1. 4 million followers on Rumble, where he posted a daily show until the allegations emerged last week.
Tokyo Game Show has begun, and fans will have their first chance to play Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth. Developers Square Enix are launching a demo of the long-awaited follow-up to 2020's FF7 Remake at the annual convention held in Chiba, Japan. Critics have already had a chance to play the open-world section and brief story mission featuring fan favourite-characters Cloud Strife and Sephiroth. And the verdict? "More of the same, but it's been supercharged". That's according to Eurogamer's Ed Nightingale, who said the demo was "familiar yet fresh. . . the sort of magical spectacle fans will relish". Polygon's Oli Welsh had a similar take, observing that Rebirth's gameplay felt like it was "expanding the scope, adding features, but cleaving close to what made the first game tick". And IGN's Bo Moore said the brief flash of the game's story felt "very familiar, yet also different", noting the "tremendous difference in scale and presentation" in the PlayStation 5 exclusive.
A councillor will face no action after being accused of voting in a meeting while driving his car. A complaint against Conwy councillor Andrew Wood was made in December, accusing him of raising his hand while the car was moving, which he denied. Public services ombudsman for Wales Michelle Morris has decided no sanctions will be taken against him. The decision was made on the grounds that the incident was a "one-off" and police were not investigating. During the meeting, which was being held remotely, Mr Wood's car appeared to be stationary but later, when he raised his hand to vote, it was moving.
A specialist new £105m NHS rehabilitation facility has been given government approval. The National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC) will be built at Stanford Hall in Nottinghamshire and will help people recovering from serious injury and illness. The approval means building work can now start on the 70-bed facility which is due to open in 2025. The NHS said the centre will "transform" patients' recovery. The NRC will be built on the Stanford Hall Rehabilitation Estate, near Loughborough, which is already home to the Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre. It will be run by Nottingham University Hospitals (NUH) NHS Trust.
The father of a 13-year-old murdered by two schoolboys has welcomed a new law to make social media firms more responsible for users' safety. Olly Stephens was ambushed and fatally stabbed in 2021 in Reading over a dispute on social media. The Online Safety Bill has taken years to agree and will force firms to remove illegal content and protect children from some legal but harmful material. Stuart Stephens told the BBC the new law was a "game-changer". "There are a lot of people who have dedicated their lives to getting this bill passed, especially the Bereaved Parents for Online Safety," he said, adding: "It hasn't quite sunk in yet…"
A 12-year-old boy Zach  with epilepsy has welcomed an anti-trolling law passed after bullies targeted his condition. Zach Eagling, from Liversedge, is "over the moon" now Zach's Law means it is illegal for trolls to maliciously send flashing images to epilepsy sufferers. He began campaigning after he was targeted during a charity challenge he undertook during Covid. Zach's mother Claire Keer said: "Zach was deeply upset at the online trolling and was determined to make it stop. " The new law is part of the government's Online Safety Bill and became official on Wednesday. Zach, who was diagnosed with cerebral palsy following a brain injury at birth and has epilepsy, wanted to follow in the footsteps of Captain Sir Tom Moore and walked 1. 6 miles around his garden without his frame during the 2020 lockdown.
Donald Trump Jr's account on X posted that his father had died, in a series of messages placed by a hacker on Wednesday. In a string of now deleted posts, the account claimed his father had died and directed a racial slur at President Joe Biden. The posts were on the page, which has 10 million followers, for less than an hour before being deleted. The Trump Organization said that the account was hacked. One of the posts read: "I'm sad to announce, my father Donald Trump has passed away. I will be running for president in 2024. " Another said North Korea was "about to get smoked", while one post wrote of "some interesting messages" with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Others mentioned Richard Heart, a cryptocurrency influencer facing fraud charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and YouTuber Logan Paul. The posts began appearing after 08:00 ET (12:00 GMT).
A council is to use artificial intelligence (AI) to catch speeding motorists, new policy papers have revealed. Kent County Council says it will also aim to use the technology to find crumbling roads and identify residents who may be vulnerable to homelessness. Council leader Roger Gough said the proposal had been made in view of AI’s “spectacular growth”. “I can see it enriching what we do as an organisation and develop a better understanding of how we serve our population,” he said. The technology could be used to generate data on how residents in independent living interact with their surroundings, to highlight council staff who may be likely to leave and to catch speeding motorists, according to policy papers. “This involves the use of AI to highlight road sections where road users are not compliant with newly-introduced speed limits in order to determine where further action may be required,” the council document stated.
Elon Musk's brain-computer interface (BCI) start-up Neuralink has begun recruiting people for its first human trial. The company's goal is to connect human brains to computers and it wants to test its technology on people with paralysis. A robot will help implant a BCI that will let them control a computer cursor, or type, using thoughts alone. But rival companies have already implanted BCI devices in humans. Neuralink won US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for its first human clinical trial, in May, a critical milestone after earlier struggles to gain approval. The FDA approval represented "an important first step that will one day allow our technology to help many people", Neuralink said at the time The company had sought approval to implant its devices in 10 people, former and current employees told news agency Reuters. The number finally agreed upon is not known.
Parents in the US whose children purchased items in the popular game Fortnite without their permission will be able to claim a refund from today. The US regulator accused the game of tricking players into making unintended purchases and breaching privacy. Fortnite developer Epic Games agreed to pay $245m (£198m) in refunds in 2022. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has now begun the process of contacting 37 million people to alert them to the compensation. Fortnite is one of the most popular video games in the world, with more than 400 million players. It is a free-to-play video game - meaning while there's no upfront cost, it makes its money through players making in-game purchases. The FTC said Epic Games duped players with "deceptive interfaces" that could trigger purchases while the game loaded, and accused it of having default settings that breached people's privacy.
An "eyesore" 5G mast could be built behind a housing estate. Under plans submitted to Bracknell Forest Council, Cignal Infrastructure wants to build a 15m-high (49ft) pole behind houses at the Great Hollands estate in Bracknell, Berkshire. Dozens of residents have written to the council to object, calling on it to refuse planning permission. Many of them said the mast would damage the views from their houses and lower their value. Resident Robert Gale described it as "very unsightly", adding: "There must be a better place to put it. " Sarah-Jane Bird, another resident, said: "This is going to be an eyesore, and devalues our house. "
Google's AI firm DeepMind has used artificial intelligence to identify changes in human DNA  genes that might cause diseases. The researchers believe they have pinpointed 89% of all the key mutations. The development is expected to speed up diagnosis and help in the search for better treatments. A leading independent scientist told BBC News that the work was "a big step forward". Prof Ewan Birney, deputy director general of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, said: "It will help clinical researchers prioritise where to look to find areas that could cause disease. " The technique works by checking the order of the components in human DNA strands. All living organisms are built from DNA. It is made from four blocks of chemicals called adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). In humans, when an embryo is developing, the order of these letters are read to produce proteins, which are the building blocks of the the cells and tissues that make up various parts of the body.
YouTube has suspended Russell Brand's channels from making money from adverts for "violating" its "creator responsibility policy". The video platform said it was taking action "to protect" its users. Meanwhile, the BBC said it had removed some programmes featuring the comedian and actor from its streaming services. It comes after he was accused of rape and sexual assaults between 2006 and 2013. He denies the claims, saying his relationships were "always consensual". The BBC said it had removed some content that "now falls below public expectations" from iPlayer and BBC Sounds. Earlier on Tuesday, a YouTube spokesperson said: "If a creator's off-platform behaviour harms our users, employees or ecosystem, we take action. " 
A robot grocery delivery service in Greater Manchester is expanding after a successful trial. The Co-op's robots first appeared in Sale in March and the next six months will see them move into Timperley and Urmston. They have been used by 9,000 residents and membership of a Facebook group for users has more than 800 members. Some 57,000 deliveries have been made to local people, many of whom are disabled or housebound. The robots are designed to carry food, groceries and parcels to vulnerable residents who have limited access to shops. Stephen Adshead, Trafford Council's executive member for highways, environmental and traded services, said: "The introduction of these robots has been really positively received and have helped to fill a gap in the market.
US restrictions on selling high-end computer chips to China could be partially responsible for a slowdown in Irish exports, Ireland’s Central Bank has suggested. The value of Irish exports fell by €3bn in the first half of this year compared to the same period in 2022. Most of the reduction was due to reduced exports of vaccines and semiconductors. China accounts for almost 70% of all exports of semiconductors from Ireland and the drop in the first half of the year was due mainly to a reduction in sales to that market. In October last year, the Biden administration announced restrictions on exports to China of advanced integrated circuits, semiconductor manufacturing equipment and related software and technology. The restrictions apply to any company worldwide that uses US semiconductor technology in its production processes.
More than 20,000 details - including police officers' names and photos - are "potentially at risk" after a data breach, a senior officer has said. A firm in Stockport, which makes ID cards for Greater Manchester Police (GMP), was targeted in a ransomware attack last month. Chief Resource Officer Lee Rawlinson told a public meeting it was a "very serious event". He said "several" forces and government departments had also been affected. The data breach at Digital ID, which holds information on various UK organisations, is being investigated. Mr Rawlinson told a police, fire and crime panel that the information that had "potentially gone" was "relatively low-risk", adding: "It doesn't have financial details or specific details, but obviously, it does pertain to some officers' names and in some cases photo identification. "So we're treating it as a very serious event. "
Elon Musk and his son X had an amusing interaction with Turkish President Erdogan, who is visiting New York for the UN General Assembly. As the two men discussed Tesla's future in Turkey, little X seemed unimpressed with Erdogan's gift.
A Scottish research team believe they may have produced the "holy grail" alternative to palm oil. It is estimated that almost half of all food and cosmetic products on supermarket shelves contain palm oil. The huge demand has led to significant deforestation in areas where oil palm trees can grow near the equator. Food experts at Queen Margaret University (QMU) in Edinburgh say their new 100% plant-based ingredient is 70% better for the environment. And with 80% less saturated fat and 30% fewer calories, they are also hailing PALM-ALT as a significantly healthier option. Catriona Liddle, one of the lead developers on the QMU team, said: "It's the holy grail to replace it and still have exactly the same end result in product - to taste the same and have the texture the same - and we've done that.
Video game engine maker Unity has apologised after a furious response to its proposed new pricing plan. The company behind the development tool said it wanted to charge studios every time a game made with it was installed. Among heavy criticism, studios behind indie hits like Among Us, Slay the Spire and Cult of the Lamb threatened to ditch the tech in protest. Unity's now said it will amend the policy, but developers say it will have to work hard to regain trust. An engine is a set of tools handling elements like animation and audio that provides the foundation or framework for a game. It's possible to make one from scratch, but complicated, so companies often use ready-made versions to save time. Unity, alongside Epic's Unreal Engine, is one of the most commonly used examples and is especially popular with smaller studios, but also powers mega-hits like Pokemon Go and Genshin Impact.
Firefighters came to the rescue of delivery robots that found their path blocked by crews tackling a derelict building blaze. The robots, now common in parts of Cambridge, are used by the Co-op in the city for customers to order home or workplace deliveries. But they found their path blocked by a fire engine and hoses, in Brookfields in the city, on Saturday night. Posting on X, Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue said: "Sorry @coopuk our hoses and fire engines confused your delivery robots in Cambridge this evening as we tackled a building fire, but firefighters helped them on their way - hopefully not too many delays! " The supermarket thanked the crew for its assistance and posted it was " glad to hear they were able to help".


A gay man from Sussex says his images have been stolen at least 18 times by romance scammers to con women. Steve Bustin from Brighton, East Sussex, says he was first made aware his photos were being used when one of the victims called him. "My phone rang and a woman's voice said 'you don't know me, but I thought I knew you'," Mr Bustin said. It comes as the new Online Safety Bill progressed further in parliament this week. Speaking to Politics South East, Mr Bustin said: "A woman who had been 'dating' me online for some weeks had got suspicious of some of the photos and tracked me down and contacted me. "As a result we went public and I now know of at least 18 to 20 women who have 'dated me' and I suspect there are dozens more out there. " Mr Bustin said a scammer, known only as "Martin", had spent weeks conning one victim by creating a fake passport using Mr Bustin's image and date of birth and even tried to dupe the victim with a fake video call.

Police have banned drone flights above Nottingham's Goose Fair over safety concerns. The fair - one of the oldest in Europe - is popular with drone pilots seeking aerial pictures and footage of its spectacularly illuminated rides. However a "no-fly zone" for drones within 750 metres (2461ft) has been imposed for this year's event. Those who break the restriction face fines or prosecution, Nottinghamshire Police warned. The annual Goose Fair is one of the largest travelling fairs in Europe and dates back more than 700 years. This year's fair, at the Forest Recreation Ground, will take place from 29 September and 8 October and the police said the airspace restriction would be in force for the duration.
A Scottish amateur football club has jokingly accused Elon Musk of "stealing" its crest for a new logo for his rocket launching company SpaceX. Haddington Town AFC, based in East Lothian, took to the billionaire's social media platform X to highlight the similarities. Both logos feature the white outline of goat within a circle on a dark background. BBC Scotland News has contacted Space X for comment. The logo appeared online last week in a photograph of employees at the Starbase spaceport and development facility in Boca Chica, Texas. It featured at the foot of the company's Mechazilla launch tower.
Irish regulators have fined TikTok €345m (£296m) for violating children's privacy. The complaint concerned how the social media app handled children's data in 2020 - particularly around age verification and privacy settings. It is the biggest fine to date TikTok has received from regulators. A spokesperson for the social media firm said it "respectfully disagree[s] with the decision, particularly the level of the fine imposed". "The criticisms are focused on features and settings that were in place three years ago, and that we made changes to well before the investigation even began, such as setting all under 16 accounts to private by default," they said. The fine was issued by Ireland's Data Protection Commission (DPC) under the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) privacy law. GDPR sets out rules that companies must follow when handling data. The DPC found that TikTok had not been transparent enough with children about its privacy settings, and raised questions about how their data was processed.
The UK, France and Germany are to retain sanctions on Iran in an attempt to deter Tehran from selling drones and missiles to Russia. In 2015 Iran agreed to a nuclear deal and, under the terms, some sanctions were due be lifted next month. However, the European nations believe Iran breached the deal by enriching and storing uranium. Iran says their move is "illegal and provocative" and "clearly violated" the terms of the nuclear deal. European diplomatic sources said the decision was driven not just by a desire to prevent Iran gaining economically, but also to try to reduce the possibility of Tehran transferring ballistic missiles to Russia. Tehran has already sold many drones to Moscow which have been used against Ukraine. The UK, France and Germany said the sanctions were designed "to maintain nuclear proliferation-related measures on Iran, as well as arms and missile embargoes".
Traffic cameras equipped with artificial intelligence ( AI ) could be introduced in Lincolnshire as a way of reducing fatal crashes for improving safety . The county's police and crime commissioner (PCC) Marc Jones will discuss this and other safety measures at a road safety summit next week. The camera systems are being trialled in Devon and Cornwall to catch drivers using phones or not wearing seatbelts. Mr Jones said he hoped to identify ideas that can be implemented locally. He believes the East of England and East Midlands Road Safety Summit will offer the chance to share best practice. Speakers include roads and local transport minister Richard Holden, road safety experts and PCCs from across the East of England and East Midlands. Mr Jones said: "In Lincolnshire over the last few years we have made encouraging steps forward in our bid to keep our roads safe - however the number of tragic incidents on our roads has remained too high and we must do more. "
Apple will update its iPhone 12 in France after fears about radiation, the country's digital minister says. Jean-Noel Barrot said Apple would deliver a software update for users in the country in the coming days. Sales of iPhone 12 were halted in France after a regulator detected too much electromagnetic radiation. Apple was told to fix the issue. The firm said the new update would only apply to users in France, where it said a specific testing protocol existed. The American tech giant suggested the radiation findings were a result of that testing regime, and that it was "not a safety concern". The planned update raises questions over Apple's plans for iPhone 12, which was released just three years ago, in other countries. Mr Barrot said that the radio frequency regulator (ANFR) would test the new update to check its compliance before iPhone 12 is allowed back on sale in the country. The World Health Organization has previously sought to allay fears about radiation emitted by mobile phones.
Taiwan has told billionaire Elon Musk it is "not for sale" after he said the island was a part of China. "Listen up, Taiwan is not part of the PRC [People's Republic of China] & certainly not for sale! ," foreign minister Joseph Wu said on Mr Musk's X. At a business summit this week, Mr Musk compared Taiwan to Hawaii, calling it an "integral part" of China. Beijing claims self-governed Taiwan and tensions between the two have ratcheted up over the past year. Just this week, China conducted air and naval drills around Taiwan, in what has become a routine show of military might around the island. Taiwan said that it had detected more than 40 Chinese military aircraft and about 10 ships in its waters.
A Scottish boarding school once attended by King Charles III has banned the use of mobile phones within the school. Pupils at Gordonstoun are expected to leave their phones in their boarding houses during the day as well as handing them into staff overnight. The school said it was concerned about the "addictive" nature of mobiles. The new policy extends previous limits on phone use which are said to have boosted exam results. Lisa Kerr, principal of Gordonstoun, said: "Asking children to have a phone in their pocket but not respond when it buzzes with a notification is like putting a bowl of M&Ms on their desk and asking them not to take one, even when no one is looking.
A new supercomputer set to be one of the most powerful in Europe is to be built in a move to drive AI research in the UK, the government says. The University of Bristol will host the new AI Research Resource (AIRR). The machine will "help researchers maximise the potential of AI" and the safe use of the technology, according to the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology. It will be named Isambard-AI after the engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel. Prof Simon McIntosh-Smith, senior lecturer of high performance computing at the University of Bristol, said: "We're delighted to be chosen as the site to host the UK's first ever Artificial Intelligence Research Resource. "Isambard-AI will be one of the world's first, large-scale, open AI supercomputers, and builds on our expertise designing and operating cutting-edge computational facilities, such as the incoming Isambard 3."
Tesla CEO Elon Musk says there was "overwhelming consensus" for regulation on artificial intelligence after tech heavyweights gathered in Washington to discuss AI. Tech bosses attending the meeting included Meta's Mark Zuckerberg and Google boss Sundar Pichai. Microsoft's former CEO Bill Gates and Microsoft's current CEO Satya Nadella were also in attendance. The Wednesday meeting with US lawmakers was held behind closed doors. The forum was convened by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and included the tech leaders as well as civil rights advocates. The power of artificial intelligence - for both good and bad - has been the subject of keen interest from politicians around the world. In May, Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT, testified before a US Senate committee, describing the potential pitfalls of the new technology.
Apple has confirmed its new iPhone 15 will not feature its proprietary lightning charging port, after the EU forced the change. The tech giant said that the iPhone 15, unveiled at its annual event on Tuesday, would use a USB-C cable as the "universally accepted standard". A new Apple Watch series was also unveiled with a more advanced chip. But one analyst said a lack of "headline-grabbing" updates from Apple this year would disappoint some. "It isn't a surprise given the maturity of the iPhone and Watch," said Ben Wood from CCS Insight. "It reflects just how refined the iPhone and Watch devices are and how tough it has become to deliver truly disruptive updates every year. " Apple released a USB-C-to-lightning port adapter for £29 ($36). The product connects the lightning port accessories people will have built up over the years to its new USB-C-enabled iPhones or iPads.
Customers have reported problems with slot machines and online room booking systems following a cyber-attack on casino and hotel giant MGM Resorts. Certain systems were shut down due to a "cyber-security issue", the firm said. But it added that its facilities remained "operational". One customer at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas said she had walked into the wrong room because the hotel's digital keys were malfunctioning, and said staff had to distribute physical keys. Staff offered her a complimentary stay as compensation, she told the BBC. She also posted a video on TikTok of slot machines and gambling games at the resort switched off. 
The head of Spotify has denied claims that users can repeatedly listen to their own uploaded 30-second track to rake in monthly royalties. Finance analysts at JP Morgan had said that Spotify subscribers could make $1,200 (£960) a month by listening to their song on repeat, 24 hours a day. The claim suggested Spotify's royalty payment structure could be manipulated. But Daniel Ek, the streaming giant's CEO, says that is not how the platform's royalties work. The theory was first reported in the Financial Times, and then tweeted about by Julian Klymochko, founder of Accelerate, a Canadian-based investment company. "If that were true, my own playlist would just be 'Daniel's 30-second Jam' on repeat! " Mr Ek tweeted back in response.
An upgrade of landlines to digital technology has begun in Northern Ireland. It is part of BT's Digital Voice project to replace analogue phone lines with digital ones. BT has described the project, which began in parts of England in July and August, as a "once-in-a-generation" undertaking. Customers in Northern Ireland will be contacted at least four weeks in advance of the switch. The upgrade will see BT and many other telecoms operators in the UK provide services over a broadband line. BT said the work was "essential" as it would replace technology that was fast becoming obsolete. The company said that landline phones were not being phased out and, for the majority of customers, the switch only involved plugging the landline phone into a broadband router instead of into a wall-mounted socket.
Kyiv was attacked by Russian drones early on Sunday and debris fell in several districts, Ukrainian officials say, but no casualties were reported. At least 10 explosions were heard in the capital and air raid sirens signalled that residents should take shelter. Later the all-clear sounded. Kyiv Military Administration chief Serhiy Popko said debris had sparked a fire in a residential building, but it had been extinguished. Drones have also hit Kyiv previously. On Sunday, the city authorities named the affected districts as Podilskyi, Sviatoshynskyi and Shevchenkivskyi, all in or near the city centre. Kyiv's air defence system has proven effective at downing most Russian drones and missiles targeting the city. Mr Popko said about 20 Iranian-made Shahed attack drones had been downed on Sunday. They had flown over Kyiv in groups from several directions, he said.
The massively popular children's gaming platform Roblox has announced plans to launch on Sony's PlayStation  4 and PS5 consoles. Roblox has more than 60 million players a day, according to the firm, but it has come under criticism over concerns about poor moderation of its content. Other announcements include a new way to make characters, a communication tool called Roblox Connect, and a full release on Meta's VR platform Quest. It will be available on PlayStation 4 and PS5 in October 2023. Previously, it was only available to play on computers and mobile devices, and on Microsoft's Xbox One console. It is a big move from Roblox as it shores up its position as one of the most popular gaming platforms in the world. Exactly how popular it is is unclear, though in 2020 Roblox told Bloomberg two-thirds of all US children between the ages of nine and 12 play the game.
A Turkish cryptocurrency boss and his two siblings have been jailed for 11,196 years each for defrauding investors of millions of dollars. Faruk Fatih Ozer, 29, fled to Albania in 2021 with investor assets after his Thodex exchange suddenly collapsed. He was extradited back to Turkey in June and found guilty of money-laundering, fraud and organised crime. Ozer told the court he would "not have acted so amateurishly" if his intent was criminal, state media reported. "I am smart enough to lead any institution on Earth," the Anadolu agency quoted him as saying. "That is evident in this company I established at the age of 22. " The brief trial in Istanbul also found his sister Serap and brother Guven guilty of the same charges.
Social media firms must remove animal cruelty content from their platforms or face fines of up to £18m. The latest change to the Online Safety Bill comes following a BBC Eye investigation. Ministers said the Monkey Haters investigation that uncovered a global monkey torture ring was a clear example of why the amendments were needed. The bill - which aims to police the internet - is expected to become law this autumn. Animal cruelty videos will be deemed as a "priority offence" under a new amendment to the bill - bringing it in line with revenge porn, child sexual abuse and threats to kill.
Elon Musk says he refused to give Kyiv access to his Starlink communications network over Crimea to avoid complicity in a "major act of war". Kyiv had sent an emergency request to activate Starlink to Sevastopol, home to a major Russian navy port, he said. His comments came after a book alleged he had switched off Starlink to thwart a drone attack on Russian ships. A senior Ukrainian official says this enabled Russian attacks and accused him of "committing evil". Russian naval vessels had since taken part in deadly attacks on civilians, he said. "By not allowing Ukrainian drones to destroy part of the Russian military (! ) fleet via Starlink interference, Elon Musk allowed this fleet to fire Kalibr missiles at Ukrainian cities," he said. "Why do some people so desperately want to defend war criminals and their desire to commit murder? And do they now realize that they are committing evil and encouraging evil? " he added.
An electric self-driving full-size single-decker bus has began operating for the first time. The Mi-Link 003 service, operated by First Bus, is carrying passengers in Oxfordshire between Didcot Parkway train station and Milton Park. It follows trials of a self-driving mini-bus around Milton Park, which then expanded to a round trip between the station and the business park. The bus company's head of policy called it "revolutionary". First Bus said the bus' radar, LiDAR and AI technology could safely steer, accelerate and brake without the need for human intervention. It has a safety driver who is able to take over at any point and take full manual control if needed. They are also on board to "provide a personalised service and information to passengers".
Shares in Apple have fallen for a second day in a row after reports that Chinese government workers have been banned from using iPhones. The firm's stock market valuation has fallen by more than 6%, or almost $200bn (£160bn), in the past two days. China is the technology giant's third-largest market, accounting for 18% of its total revenue last year. It is also where most of Apple's products are manufactured by its biggest supplier Foxconn. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported on Wednesday that Beijing had ordered central government agency officials to not bring iPhones into the office or use them for work. The following day, Bloomberg News reported that the ban may also be imposed on workers at state-owned companies and government-backed agencies.
A football referee has developed an app to report abusive touchline behaviour. Oxfordshire Football Association (OFA) respect champion and referee Andrew Raisbeck is using his experience to address abusive incidents, especially towards young referees. Data from the app will be used to take action against offenders. Mr Raisbeck, who has refereed mainly in youth football for 10 years, said it was important to develop referees who "feel confident". In a questionnaire carried out during the last football season, hundreds of grassroots referees told the BBC they do not feel safe when refereeing and that abuse could come from fans, coaches, and parents. Mr Raisbeck has developed an app, initially called Refereeing in Oxfordshire "to report any kind of problems they've had with abuse and intolerant behaviour towards them or their decision making".
The first Tubes stations in London's West End have received high-speed mobile coverage of  4G and 5G is available at Oxford Circus and Tottenham Court Road ticket halls and on the Central line between the stations. Further sections of the Northern and Central line will be getting coverage in the coming months. By December, 33 stations with underground platforms will have mobile coverage, increasing to 40 in 2024. All four mobile network operators - Three UK, EE, Vodafone, and Virgin Media O2 (VMO2) - are taking part in the rollout, which has already delivered 4G on sections of the Jubilee, Northern and Central lines. It is expected that by the end of 2023, the first Elizabeth line stations will have mobile coverage, with the whole line getting coverage by the end of spring 2024.
A reality TV contestant says she receives a storm of abuse and sexually explicit material over social media. Eve Betts, 28, raises awareness of alopecia on her Instagram page, but said it meant she faced hate online. "I get a lot of death threats. People saying that I should just die because of the way that I look," she said. It comes as a new survey found four in five women and girls in Wales have received text-based abuse on social media platforms. The Open University survey also found that nearly half were subjected to sexually explicit material. Eve, from Bridgend, appeared on Channel 4's First Dates programme in 2017, where she took off her wig on camera. Five years since the airing of the programme, she said she still receives abusive messages online "on a weekly basis", some including sexually explicit videos.
A secondary school in Kent has been hit by a criminal cyber attack, with pupil and parental data encrypted. Jason Feldwick, principal of St Augustine Academy in Maidstone, confirmed there had been "a serious IT breach" on Wednesday. He told parents and carers the breach resulted in school systems and data being encrypted by an "outside criminal organisation". He said they will inform authorities and work on a back up solution. It is not known if so-called "ransomware" was used to demand cash from the school or the trust that the academy is part of. Mr Feldwick urged parents and carers to be "extra vigilant" if they receive any unusual emails and phone calls. Councillor Chris Passmore said: "It just goes to show that absolutely no one is safe from cyber attacks and emphasises the need for vigilance against them. "
A robotic "dog" has been used to carry out surveys of two Cold War weapons testing facilities, in a first for the National Trust. Drones and a mobile robot surveyed the off-limits buildings at Orford Ness, Suffolk, a national nature reserve which was once a military testing site. The laboratories are closed to the public and staff for safety reasons. Colin Evison, from the robot's operator BAM Nuttall, said the aim is to capture the buildings' "size and geometry". Russell Clement, the National Trust's general manager for Suffolk and Essex Coastal, said accessing the area was "a bit of a headscratcher".
YouTube has launched a verification system for healthcare workers in the UK as it battles disinformation online. In 2022, health videos were viewed more than three billion times in the UK alone on the video-sharing platform. Doctors, nurses and psychologists have been applying for the scheme since June and must meet rigorous criteria set by the tech giant to be eligible. Successful applicants will have a badge under their name identifying them as a genuine, licensed healthcare worker. But YouTubers have warned the system is only meant for education purposes, not to replace medical advice from your GP. Vishaal Virani, who leads health content for YouTube, said it was important simply due to the sheer number of people accessing healthcare information on the video-sharing platform.
Google will soon require that political ads on its platforms let people know when images and audio have been created using artificial intelligence (AI). The rules have been created as a response to the "growing prevalence of tools that produce synthetic content", a Google spokesperson told the BBC. The change is scheduled for November, about a year ahead of the next US presidential election. There are fears AI will supercharge disinformation around the campaigns. Google's existing ad policies already ban manipulating digital media to deceive or mislead people about politics, social issues, or matters of public concern. But this update will require election-related ads to "prominently disclose" if they contain "synthetic content" that depicts real or realistic-looking people or events.
The government has denied it is changing plans and U-turn  to force  encrypted  messaging apps to access users' private messages if requested by the regulator Ofcom. There has been a stand-off between the UK government and tech firms over a clause in the Online Safety Bill relating to encrypted messages. These are messages that can only be seen by the sender and recipient. The Bill states that if there are concerns about child abuse content, tech companies might have to access it. But platforms like WhatsApp, Signal and iMessage say they cannot access or view anybody's messages without destroying existing privacy protections for all users, and have threatened to leave the UK rather than compromise message security. The debate has raged for several months and for some it has turned into an argument about privacy versus the protection of children. The government insists it is possible to have both.
A north London school has been forced to temporarily close due to a cyber attack on its computer systems. Highgate Wood School, with 1,500 pupils, has had to remain shut for another week following the school summer holiday. Computer systems at the Crouch End school have been taken down by the attack, causing confusion for online timetables, classes and homework. The school says it is confident it will reopen on 11 September. A spokesperson said it could not make other provisions for the children while the systems were down. An email addressed to parents from the school, read: "With the help of Haringey Council, London Grid for Learning and other external experts in the field of cyber security, we're doing everything to get our systems and functionality back up and running as swiftly and securely as possible.
Lifelike robotic pets are being used in East Sussex to help people diagnosed with early-onset dementia. East Sussex County Council's RoboPets scheme aims to act as a distraction by giving people with the early stages of the condition a robotic cat or dog. Since the pilot project's launch in April, 50 robotic pets have found homes across the county. The council's lead member for adult social care, Carl Maynard, said he was delighted by the positive reaction. He said: "A dementia diagnosis can come as a shock. This project aims to help people cope with the symptoms, by aiding independence and providing companionship and comfort. " Dementia is a symptom found in many diseases of the brain, with Alzheimer's by far the most common cause. Memory loss is the most common feature, particularly the struggle to remember recent events.
Misinformation about contraception on social media may be contributing to Scotland's record high abortion figures, doctors have told the BBC. The number of terminations carried out in Scotland rose by almost a fifth between 2021 and 2022. For the first time in 14 years, the number of 16 to 19-year-olds accessing abortion services also increased. There are concerns this is being driven in part by false and misleading information on apps such as TikTok. Videos on the platform include false claims about hormonal contraception, such as the pill, the implant, the jab and some types of the coil. The misinformation online often focuses on side effects.Videos on the platform include false claims about hormonal contraception, such as the pill, the implant, the jab and some types of the coil. The misinformation online often focuses on side effects.
A ground-breaking science facility will be upgraded and expanded thanks to a £519m government investment, it has been announced. Diamond Light Source, in Harwell, Oxfordshire, has studied advanced treatments of HIV, cancer and the Covid-19 vaccine. It is also home to the synchrotron, a tool which speeds electrons up to near the speed of light to produce intense beams of light that can probe matter. The upgrade will take seven years. It will involve construction of a new, even brighter synchrotron machine, which is essentially a giant microscope, producing light 10 billion times brighter than the sun. The light is directed via beamlines, into laboratories where research takes place in virtually all fields of science from health to energy. Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology Michelle Donelan visited Diamond, based at the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, to announce the multi-million-pound funding provided through UKRI (STFC), and the Wellcome Trust.
Ukraine cyber-teams are being deployed on the front lines of the war, duelling close-up with their Russian counterparts in a new kind of high-tech battle. "We have people who are directly involved in combat," says Illia Vitiuk, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service's (SBU) cyber department. Speaking inside the heavily protected SBU headquarters, he explains how his teams mix the skills of hackers and special forces - getting inside Russian systems, working alongside snipers and deploying the latest technologies. The department uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) visual recognition systems to analyse information gathered from aerial drones (alongside intelligence from human sources, satellites and other technical sources) to provide targets for the military. "We understand which type of military weapons they are about to use and on what direction," Mr Vitiuk says.
Young, vibrant and bubbly, YouTuber Tiba al-Ali became a hit with her fun-loving videos about her life. She started her channel after moving from her native Iraq to Turkey at the age of 17 in 2017, talking about her independence, her fiancé, make-up and other things. Tiba appeared happy and attracted tens of thousands of subscribers. This January Tiba al-Ali went back to Iraq to visit her family - and was murdered by her father. However, the killing was not considered to have been "pre-meditated" and her father was sentenced to only six months in prison. Tiba's death sparked protests across Iraq about its laws regarding so-called "honour killings", the case highlighting how women are treated in a country where conservative attitudes remain dominant.
TikTok has opened its first European data centre to alleviate fears over Chinese state surveillance and spying. The firm says European users' data is now migrating to servers in Dublin, as part of its ongoing response to data privacy concerns around the video-sharing app's links to China. TikTok, which is owned by Chinese firm ByteDance, says it has never given data to Beijing. Critics fear that the Chinese state could request access anytime. The video-sharing giant is also allowing a European security company access to audit cyber-security and data protection controls. TikTok has called this "Project Clover", nodding to the pivotal role that Ireland is playing. It is running in parallel with "Project Texas", which involved promising similar measures to US lawmakers in 2020. Earlier this year TikTok faced a number of government restrictions on its use on cyber-security and privacy grounds.
The Electoral Commission has confirmed it failed a basic cyber-security test around the same time hackers gained entry to the organisation. A whistleblower told the BBC that the Commission was given an automatic fail during a Cyber Essentials audit. Last month the Commission revealed that "hostile actors" accessed its emails and potentially the data of 40 million voters. A spokeswoman said the Commission had still not passed the basic test. In August the election watchdog announced hackers broke into their IT systems in August 2021 and had access to sensitive data until they were discovered and removed in October 2022. The unnamed attackers accessed Electoral Commission email correspondence and could have viewed databases containing the names and addresses of 40 million registered voters, including millions of those not on public registers.
Ukraine has alleged that Russian drones landed on Romanian territory during a series of strikes on a neighbouring Ukrainian city. Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told reporters after a news conference in Kyiv that Ukraine had photographic evidence supporting its claim. However, Romania has rejected Kyiv's version of events and BBC Verify says it cannot authenticate the image. The row came as the Russian and Turkish leaders held talks. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had travelled to the Russian city of Sochi in an attempt to persuade President Vladimir Putin to revive the deal that allowed Ukraine to export grain safely through the Black Sea. Mr Putin said the deal, which Moscow abandoned in July, would not be reinstated until the West met his demands for sanctions to be lifted on Russian agricultural produce.
Insp Guy Summers, who manages air and marine support across the Thames Valley, Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, said there had been a huge investment over the last four years. He said: "We've gone from 15 to 20 pilots [and] seven drones to 130 pilots and 49 drones. Insp Guy Summers, who manages air and marine support across the Thames Valley, Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, said there had been a huge investment over the last four years. He said: "We've gone from 15 to 20 pilots [and] seven drones to 130 pilots and 49 drones.
Three men have been arrested after a drone was used to drop a package into prison grounds late at night. Police were called at 01. 30 BST on Friday after suspicious activity near HMP Erlestoke, in Wiltshire. Prison staff reported seeing a drone flying over the prison and it is believed to have dropped the package of suspicious items into the grounds. Three men from the Bristol area, aged in their 20s, 30s and 40s, have been arrested. Officers went to the area and spotted a Nissan Qashqai which was stopped on Bath Road, Melksham, heading towards Shaw.
Tech firms companies have failed to stop "large-scale" Russian disinformation campaigns and propaganda  since the invasion of Ukraine, the EU has said. The EU Commission's report said the "reach and influence of Kremlin-backed accounts" had grown further in 2023. Russian disinformation has increased on X, formerly Twitter, since Elon Musk bought the company, the report added. The BBC has approached Twitter, Meta, TikTok and YouTube for comment, but has not received a response. The study, published on Wednesday, looks at attempts to deal with Kremlin-backed disinformation and suggests the rise has been "driven in particular by the dismantling of Twitter's safety standards". The BBC has previously reported that accounts belonging to official Kremlin social media accounts have propagated false information about the war in Ukraine.
Russia's pro-war influencers are generating big advertising revenues from their social media coverage of the conflict, the BBC has found. Alongside a daily ration of gruesome videos of drone strikes and false claims about Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky, they share ads for anything from cryptocurrency to fashion. Known in Russia as "Z-Bloggers" because of their support for a war often symbolised by the letter Z, they are often embedded with the Russian army and post footage from the front line where they call on young Russians to enlist. Since the start of the full-scale invasion in February 2022, pro-war influencers have gained millions of followers on Telegram, the social media platform many Russians turned to after President Vladimir Putin banned Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. That explosion in users has led to a surge in Telegram's advertising market.
The drone attack on an airbase in the Russian city of Pskov on Tuesday was launched from inside Russia, Ukraine's military intelligence chief has said. Kyrylo Budanov said two Ilyushin cargo planes were destroyed and two damaged. Russia says four were damaged. Mr Budanov did not say whether the attack was carried out by Ukrainian or Russian operatives. Ukraine's drone attacks on Russia occur almost daily. It had already admitted the Pskov attack. But Mr Budanov's comments appear to end speculation that it was caused by a long-range weapon. On Thursday, President Volodymyr Zelensky said that a Ukrainian-made weapon had hit a target at a distance of 700km. Pskov is nearly 700km (434 miles) from the Ukrainian border. "We are working from the territory of Russia," Mr Budanov told the War Zone website on Thursday, without saying what type or quantity of drones were used.
X, formerly known as Twitter, will collect biometric data on its users, such as a photograph of their face, in an update to its privacy policy. People signed up to its subscription service, X Premium, can choose to provide a selfie and photo ID for verification. The policy also states X may collect employment and educational history. This would be to "recommend potential jobs for you, to share with potential employers when you apply for a job". There has been speculation that X may want to offer recruitment services. In May, X Corp acquired a tech recruiting service called Laskie, according to reports. It was the first take over of a company since Elon Musk bought Twitter, as it was then known, last year for $44bn (£34. 7bn) The new privacy policy will come into force 29 September.
A high school has said its IT systems have been subjected to a cyber attack. Debenham High School, in Debenham, Suffolk said all its computer facilities were offline as a result of the hacking. In a letter to parents, the head said police had been informed and there was no evidence that any data had been compromised. The school said it was working to restore the systems before the new school term started. Headteacher Simon Martin said: "Although it is difficult to provide precise timescales for a full restoration, the support team has assured us that due to the safeguards we have in place, the restoration process should happen more quickly. "Work completed over the holidays by students is currently not available to access. "Staff are aware of this situation and please do not worry if any work had not been completed. " The high school is a Church of England specialist academy.
A Ukrainian government official has confirmed to the BBC that Ukraine was behind Wednesday's drone attack on a Russian airbase at Pskov. A number of Ilyushin transport planes were said to be damaged or destroyed. The official, from the Ministry of Defence, confirmed local reports that Ukrainian military intelligence (GUR) was behind the attack. Meanwhile, President Volodymyr Zelensky said that a Ukrainian-made weapon had hit a target at a distance of 700km. He did not specify the weapon or the target, but the distance could correspond to the Pskov attack. Ukraine believes that four Il-76 planes were destroyed and two others damaged. Russian officials say four planes were damaged. The damaged aircraft are long-range cargo planes, ideal for transporting troops and equipment over long distances and therefore valuable war assets for Russia.
Moscow has vowed Ukraine will "not go unpunished" after drone strikes hit targets in Russia, while Kyiv saw its heaviest bombardment in months. The drones hit several Russian regions and damaged two military planes, a fuel depot and a microelectronics factory. Meanwhile Ukrainian officials said most missiles and drones were shot down but two people were killed. Kyiv has not said that it was involved in the latest attacks, but it rarely comments on strikes inside Russia. In recent weeks, however, Ukraine is believed to have increased its use of explosive drones to attack targets in Russia. This is all part of its counter-offensive strategy - making it as difficult as possible for Russia to keep its frontline troops supplied, as it pushes on with its full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
Users of the dating app Coffee Meets Bagel have expressed frustration over an ongoing, multi-day system outage. The CMB app - which sells itself as the one "for serious daters" - first went down on 27 August, blocking users from their budding romances. It has now been down for three days with the firm's engineers saying they are working on a "system outage". The app claims to have more than 10 million sign-ups worldwide, including many across Asia. "I had a date set up for tonight before it went down. And now I'm drinking alone," one user in Singapore complained. In a company update on Tuesday night local time, the firm said: "We're making solid progress, and we're on track to get things back up and running. "We'll send you both an email and a push notification once things are fixed. "
A motorcycle enthusiast who flew a drone at the Manx Grand Prix during road closures for the races has been fined £3,000. Thomas Rudd, 25, was seen flying the craft near Ballaugh Bridge during a visit to the island on Sunday. Regulations ban the flying of drones within 1km (0. 6 miles) of the TT course during qualifying and race periods. Deputy High Bailiff Rachael Braidwood said the use of drones in forbidden areas could "lead to disaster". Douglas Courthouse heard that race control was alerted to a drone being flown in the area of Ballaugh Bridge at about 16:15 BST, shortly before the start of the Senior MGP race on the final day of racing at the event. A spectator took a photograph of the drone operator, which was passed on to police
Google is trialling a digital watermark to spot images made by artificial intelligence (AI) in a bid to fight disinformation. Developed by DeepMind, Google's AI arm, SynthID will identify images generated by machines. It works by embedding changes to individual pixels in images so watermarks are invisible to the human eye, but detectable by computers. But DeepMind said it is not "foolproof against extreme image manipulation". As the technology evolves, it is becoming increasingly more complex to tell the difference between real images and artificially-generated ones - as BBC Bitesize's AI or Real quiz shows. AI image generators have become mainstream, with popular tool Midjourney boasting more than 14. 5m users. They allow people to create images in seconds by inputting simple text instructions, leading to questions over copyright and ownership worldwide.
Kainos, the Belfast based IT firm, says it is investing £10m to develop the use of generative AI in its business. Generative AI is a technology which allows computers to generate new and original content which feels like it has been created by a human. One of the major business uses for generative AI is to automate or accelerate the development of software. Kainos says the investment will include training more than 1,000 of its staff in AI tools and 'Copilots. ' Versions of AI technology such as customer service 'chatbots' are already widely used and Kainos has had an AI and data practice for several years which currently employs around 150 people. The firm's incoming chief executive Russell Sloan said: "Today's announcement represents the next step in the development of our AI capabilities
Love was in the air as a man spelled out "marry me" in the sky with drones to propose to his partner. Rhys Whelan, 30, popped the question to Megan Greenwood, 27, with a personalised display at a fireworks event at Newby Hall near Ripon, North Yorkshire, on Saturday night. The drones drew love hearts and spelled the words "Megan" before Mr Greenwood, from Bradford, got down on one knee. The display was set to the couple's favourite song, 6 Words by Wretch 32. Ms Greenwood said her fiancé "couldn't have done anything more perfect" and the unorthodox proposal "definitely beat anything that I could imagine". The drones formed several shapes in the sky including champagne bottles and love hearts before spelling out the proposal.
Polish intelligence services are investigating a hacking attack on the country's railways, Polish media say. Hackers broke into railway frequencies to disrupt traffic in the north-west of the country overnight, the Polish Press Agency (PAP) reported on Saturday. The signals were interspersed with recording of Russia's national anthem and a speech by President Vladimir Putin, the report says. Poland is a major transit hub for Western weapons being sent to Ukraine. Saturday's incident occurred when hackers transmitted a signal that triggered an emergency stoppage of trains near the city of Szczecin, PAP reported. About 20 trains were brought to a standstill, but services were restored within hours. Stanislaw Zaryn, a senior security official, said Poland's internal security service ABW was investigating. "For the moment, we are ruling nothing out," he told PAP.
A vineyard in Kent is using drones in the hope that they will help improve its crop. The specialist drones gather data, find out sunny spots and measure the soil humidity. The owners of the Gusbourne Estate in Appledore hope the drones will give them an edge over their competitors. Michael Williams, from the University of Brighton, said: "It is massive in terms of the efficiency saving when you've got that bird's eye perspective. "
A video game claiming to be the first in the world to feature the plight of the Windrush generation is due to launch at a culture festival. The game's writer has described the Windrush Tales as an "interactive photobook" in which players chart the life of two Caribbean migrants. The launch will be the showpiece at the Thurrock Screen Culture Festival in Grays, Essex, starting on Saturday. HMT Empire Windrush docked at nearby Tilbury 75 years ago. Writer Corey Brotherson, a creative consultant from Birmingham, told BBC Essex: "I absolutely jumped at the chance to help create what we feel will be a very important, significant and personal game.
A council is continuing to deal with a suspected cyber-attack on its IT systems and networks. St Helens Council said it was working with national agencies to investigate after the suspected Ransomware incident was identified on Monday. The local authority warned the incident was having an impact on how some services were being delivered. National Cyber Security Centre said it was working with the council to fully understand the impact. A spokesperson for the council said it had "completed protective and preventative measures to protect services". "This has impacted on how some of our services are being delivered, but we are working hard to adapt to the situation and work around these issues to limit the disruption experienced by our residents. "The council's website is available, however, access to some services on it will be disrupted over the weekend.
A court has found an 18-year-old from Oxford was a part of an international cyber-crime gang responsible for a hacking spree against major tech firms. Arion Kurtaj was a key member of the Lapsus$ group which hacked the likes of Uber, Nvidia and Rockstar Games. A court heard Kurtaj leaked clips of the unreleased Grand Theft Auto 6 game while on bail in a Travelodge hotel. The audacious attacks by Lapsus$ in 2021 and 2022 shocked the cyber security world. Kurtaj is autistic and psychiatrists deemed him not fit to stand trial so he did not appear in court to give evidence. The jury were asked to determine whether or not he did the acts alleged - not if he did it with criminal intent. Another 17-year-old who is also autistic was convicted for his involvement in the activities of the Lapsus$ gang but cannot be named because of his age. The group from the UK, and allegedly Brazil, was described in court as "digital bandits".
The South Korean star Suga, a member of the phenomenally successful boy band BTS, has begun his mandatory military service, he confirmed on social media. The singer, whose real name is Min Yoon-gi, is the third member of the band to enlist, after Jin and J-Hope. "I will faithfully complete my duty and come back," he posted online. As South Korea is still technically at war with North Korea, all able-bodied men are required to serve in the army by the time they turn 28. For a long time, it was rumoured that the government might allow the members of BTS to skip the service, on the basis they had already served their country by bringing in billions of dollars, and it would be more beneficial to allow them to carry on doing so. But last October, all seven member announced they were all planning to enlist, with Jin, as the oldest, going first.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
No, Viral Video Does Not Show Sonia Gandhi Hoisting National Flag, Old Video Viral With False Claim.The viral video is from the 137th Foundation Day celebration of the Congress party, held on December 27, 2021, in New Delhi. On the party’s Foundation Day, the flag of the Congress party was hoisted by Sonia Gandhi, Sr. Congress Leader, not India’s national flag. Twitter user Harsh Vyas was among the users who shared the post in Hindi on August 15, 2023, writing. In order to ascertain the fact behind viral video claiming to show Sonia Gandhi hoisting national flag, we conducted a Google reverse image and keyword search. During this process, we came across several media reports that were shared on December 27 and 28, 2021 which indicated that the flag (bearing the imprint of a charkha/spinning wheel) seen in the video fell as senior Congress leader Sonia Gandhi was hoisting the party’s flag on Congress’ Foundation Day celebration in New Delhi.
Viral Video Of Defaced Indian Flag Is Not From Howrah Bridge In Kolkata.We conducted a keyword search on Facebook and found that the video had been shared by multiple social media users. We noticed a comment on one such post by a user, pointing out that the video showed the Kankinara bridge in Bhatpara, North 24 Parganas. Taking this as a clue, we searched Facebook using relevant keywords and found a Bengali page named “Kankinara Maane”, dedicated to Kankinara. We found the same video posted by the page on June 28th 2023, with a Bengali caption that reads, ” This is a viral video of Kankinara bridge. We then looked at the images of Kankinara bridge on Google maps and found a user generated 360 degree image of the bridge. 
Old Video Shared out of context that Rahul Gandhi Relishing Non-Vegetarian Food During Sawan which is not true. We analysed the viral footage frame-by-frame, and spotted “Al Jawahar” written on one of the boards behind Gandhi. Further, we found a video report by Times Of India, dated April 19, 2023, carrying snippets  from the viral video. It stated, “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently made a visit to the iconic Chandni Chowk market in Delhi and indulged in some of the city’s popular street food delicacies. The leader, who is often seen as reserved and serious, showed his foodie side as he savored chaat and gol gappe from one of the vendors in the market.”
A letter written by a leader of a Manipur regional party has been falsely attributed to the Manipur Congress President. No, Manipur Congress President Did Not Blame The Party For Crisis In The State.They also shared a video report by India Today, alleging that the Manipur Congress Chief said that the party is “responsible for the current problem by infiltrating Rohingyas & Bangladeshi for its vote bank.” Newschecker found the claim to be untrue and that the India Today report has been used in a false context.Multiple Twitter and Facebook users shared nearly one-minute-forty-second-long video report alleging that the Manipur Congress President has blamed the Congress for the current crisis in the state.A few others shared a shorter version of the same.
Photo Of PM Modi Looking Inappropriately At Rihanna Is Digitally Manipulated and altered. The Barbadian celebrity had earlier dominated the Indian social and mainstream media in 2021 following her tweet on the farmers’ protest against the now-repealed farm laws by the centre. The image of PM Modi alongside Rihanna was shared online with the caption, “A magnetic force causes his face to turn mysteriously. ” Newschecker found that the photograph has been digitally edited. In the actual photo, the seat next to the Prime Minister is empty and an image of Rihanna from a 2017 event has been digitally added to it.
Odisha Accident , Old Images are shared out of context from Morbi Shared As Cuttack Hospital Renovation Ahead Of PM’s Visit which is not true.A reverse image search on the viral photographs led us to a report by Outlook, dated November 1, 2022, titled ‘Gujarat: Painting, Cleaning Before PM Modi’s Visit As Hospital Tries To Hide Facts.’ The report carried the viral photographs with the caption, “Painting going on inside Morbi Civil Hospital in Gujarat ahead of PM Modi’s visit. ”  A suspension bridge collapsed in Morbi district of Gujarat on October 30, 2022, leading to the death of at least 130 people. PM Modi had visited the victims injured in the collapse at the government hospital in Morbi. Ahead of his visit, the hospital was reportedly revamped. The viral images are from the said incident.
Viral Tweet By President Joe Biden On Rahul Gandhi’s US Visit Is Fabricated and No such tweet was found on the live timeline, or archived versions of Twitter handle @POTUS. 
Karnataka Congress Government  did not Revoke Hijab Ban as the  Old Video Viral With False Claim. The state government has not taken any such decision yet.A Google lens search on the keyframes of the viral footage led us to a Facebook post by @hanif9800, dated February 8, 2022, carrying a clearer, unfiltered version of the clip that is being shared to show hijab wearing girls entering a college in Karnataka under the Congress rule. Following this, we ran a Google lens search on the clearer version of the viral clip which yielded another Facebook post by @CreativeResearcher1, dated February 9, 2022. The post carried the footage with the caption, “There is no power And no strength except with AllAH.”
Viral selfie of caretaker PM was not taken during recent UNGA visit. The selfie, while authentic, was taken in 2019 when Kakar was a senator. It’s unrelated to his tenure as caretaker prime minister.Soch Fact Check reverse-searched the image and found that Kakar himself posted it back in 2019 when he had accompanied the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) chief and the then-prime minister, Imran Khan, to the 74th UNGA session.Some social media users posted Kakar’s selfie in question alongside a picture of Iranian President Seyyed Ebrahim Raisi, who is seen holding up the Quran as he said, “The holy book beckons humanity towards rationality, spirituality, the truth and justice.”
This image does not show the daughter of Pakistan’s former top judge. A reverse image search confirmed that the woman in the image is not Sahar Bandial but TV show host Shiffa Z. Yousafzai.In his short order, cited here (archive), the judge had said the ex-PM hid “the benefits he accrued from the national exchequer wilfully and intentionally” and “cheated while providing information of gifts he obtained from Toshakhana which later proved to be false and inaccurate” during his tenure from 2018 to 2022. PTI leaders and the Supreme Court Bar Association (SBCA) have expressed their reservations regarding the legality of the judgement that led to Khan’s arrest.
Some claimed that this bill criminalises the recitation of Ziarat-e-Ashura, and some claimed that it includes making offensive comments about the companions of the Prophet into the parameters of the Blasphemy Law. Other claims even state that although one such bill has been returned, the other has been passed.  On 7 August 2023, the Senate passed a bill called the Criminal Laws (Amendment) Act which sought to amend the Code of Criminal Procedures (CrPC) and the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC). The amendments proposed in this bill were relevant to section 298A of the PPC and Schedule II, Act V of the CrPC. This bill sought to replace a three-year prison sentence with life imprisonment or at least ten years of imprisonment for blasphemy. Additionally, this bill sought to make the offense non-bailable.
Shehbaz Sharif claimed in his farewell speech that his government did not arrest or harass any political opponents as this is false. Political opponents such as PTI leaders were arrested and tortured during PDM’s tenure. Journalists who reported on sensitive issues were also harassed or detained by the authorities. Shahid Aslam, a freelance journalist, was arrested for allegedly using leaked data about the assets of former Pakistani Army General Qamar Javed Bajwa and his family in anonymous reporting for a news organisation called Fact Focus. However, Fact Focus and Aslam deny this relationship, though Soch Fact Check has not independently verified this. 
The video shows the process of manufacturing rubber bands and  is unrelated to chicken nuggets. It was also posted (archive) — and later deleted — on the social media platform X, formerly called Twitter, by David “Avocado” Wolfe, a self-styled health guru whose claims have been debunked by multiple fact-checking outlets. In its fact check, the AP said McDonald’s confirmed “it does not use lean, finely-textured beef at any of its global locations and hasn’t since 2011”.Australia’s AAP FactCheck wrote in November 2020, “Ammonium hydroxide is not listed as an approved food additive in either Australia or New Zealand.”
The man walking alongside Nawaz Sharif is journalist Kousar Kazmi, not Dilawar or Malik, the latter of whom is dead.Moreover, ADSJ Humayun Dilawar travelled to the University of Hull, which is located in Kingston upon Hull and is at least four hours away from London, where Sharif is living. Lastly, Arshad Malik, the accountability court judge, passed away (archive) in 2020 after he contracted COVID-19. He was bald, unlike Kazmi, the man accompanying Sharif. Using reverse image search tools, Soch Fact Check ascertained that the picture does not show either ADSJ Humayun Dilawar or accountability court judge Arshad Malik.The man accompanying Sharif in the photo is actually Syed Kousar Kazmi, a UK-based journalist who has served as SAMAA TV’s Bureau Chief for the European Union (EU) and posted the image on his X (formerly Twitter) account (archive) on 3 October 2020.
A video showing a muezzin calling “azan” while standing on the rubble of a destroyed building is not from the Morocco earthquake. The video has been on the internet since 2017 and has been linked to different cities, including Iraq and Syria.An Iranian daily newspaper Khabarban published the same video on 19 July 2017. The Persian language news headline translated into English reads, “An Iraqi muezzin calling the call to prayer on the ruins of a mosque.” It further reads, “After the liberation of Mosul, an Iraqi muezzin gave the call to prayer in the ruins of one of the mosques in this city.”A reverse image search through Tin Eye shows the same video was shared in 2017 with the same claim that it belongs to Iraq.  Soch Fact Check could not independently verify the authenticity of this video whether it’s from Iraq or not but it has been on the internet since 2017, not from the Morocco earthquake in 2023.
The video of a man rescuing a newborn baby from soil is not from the 2023 Morocco earthquake; it was from another incident in India where a baby was found buried alive in Kanpur.Kanpur Dehat Police also posted a video message in which the Hindi language caption that translated into English reads, “Statement from the jurisdictional officer Bhoganipur in relation to the newborn baby found in the farm under Moosanagar police station area.”  In the video, the officer said that the child was found by a couple in Pulandar, Musangar. The baby is healthy and under the supervision of doctors. The police are taking action on the complaint of the village head.Furthermore, Soch Fact Check spoke to Jyoti Dwivedi,  a fact checker from IFCN-accredited Aaj Tak, who confirmed that the video is from India. She also said that their team had spoken to the police and local journalists who verified that the incident happened in a village in the Kanpur district in India.
A viral image circulating on WhatsApp falsely claimed that Pakistani currency notes of 500, 1000, or 5000 rupees with a serial number starting with AF, CE, or HO are fake and that the State Bank of Pakistan has issued a press note to alert the public. This claim is false and no such notice was issued.The representative also said that the SBP regularly issues public notices and advisories regarding counterfeit currency notes on its official website and social media accounts. On the SBP website, we found that the 5000 Rupee banknote is still in circulation.  The representative also advised Soch Fact Check to check the SBP’s website for any updates on currency matters and to avoid relying on unverified sources of information. Furthermore the notice seems doctored. 
The Government of Pakistan did not issue a notification banning the Rs 5000 note from 30 September 2023.The false notification gained mixed views on social media. Some people shared it, confused about whether it was true or not, while others believed it to be true. Some more posts can be seen here, here, and here on Facebook.The notification also has different font sizes and structures, something not typically seen in government documents, which makes it unreliable. Caretaker Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Murtaza Solangi, also debunked the claim. The post caption reads, “This is fake. The Govt of Pakistan shall act against the people spreading this kind of fake news to create chaos.”
Viral image of a foreign woman alleged to be involved in the 9 May riots and protests is actually Czech model Tereza Hluskova, who was arrested for smuggling drugs in 2019.  Through reverse image searches, we found that this image was used by several websites reporting the news of Czech model Tereza Hluskova’s arrest by the Punjab police for drug trafficking in Pakistan in 2019 and the news of her acquittal in 2021.This news was initially covered by AFP Prague in November 2021 and published on Alarabiya News. According to this article, the model Tereza Hluskova, aged 25, was sentenced to eight years and eight months in prison for trafficking nine kilograms of heroin to Lahore in January 2018. Similar articles were also published by The Mirror UK, The US Sun, and Daily Nation Pakistan in March 2023.
The FIA did not raid Shaukat Khanum Hospital and recovered $260 million worth of foreign currency; the viral image was actually of a raid at a Mexican mansion in 2007.Through Google reverse image search, we found this image was first published on 16 March 2007 by Reuters in an article headlined, “Police find $206 mln drug cash in Mexican house.” The article states that the police had found $206 million in cash, belonging to a drug smuggler who imported chemicals used in making methamphetamines. This cash was stacked in his mansion in Mexico City. Along with the cash, the police also seized 7 firearms, a Mercedes Benz vehicle, and machinery used to make tablets. 
The IMF has not issued any statement regarding the electricity protests in Pakistan as of now. The video in question is, in fact, from February 2023, when IMF chief Kristalina spoke to a German media outlet.The publication explains that Georgieva was speaking to German media outlet Deutsche Welle (DW) on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference. The IMF had “urged Pakistan to protect the poor and impose more taxes on the wealthy as the South Asian nation seeks to unlock funds from the global lender to keep its economy afloat”, it said. The X (formerly Twitter) account for DW Asia had tweeted the interview at that time as well.
The Canadian Parliament did not pass a bill suggesting loans should not be offered to Pakistan until it holds free and fair elections.no information available on the Canadian Parliament’s website or with any mainstream credible news organisation confirms that the Parliament suggested no loans should be granted to Pakistan under the current government until free and fair elections are conducted. However, a few parliamentary orders dictate that the current situation in Pakistan is unstable and the suggestion for Magnitsky sanctions on members of the Pakistani military was considered. 
The raised platform is actually known as St Jeremiah’s Pulpit in the Saqqara necropolis in Giza, Egypt, and has no connection to Imam Hussain.Soch Fact Check reverse-searched the image and found that it was shared on Copts United, a website that hosts a daily electronic newspaper focusing on the Coptic cause. The Copts are an indigenous Christian community from Egypt.Soch Fact Check also found tourism company Tour Egypt’s website that mentions the Monastery of Jeremiah at the Saqqara necropolis, which is located in Memphis, an archaeological site near Cairo.
The claim that Maggi instant noodles are made from rotten flour and pig marrow is false. The instant noodles sold in Pakistan are halal and noodle factory’s do not look like the video in question.The instant noodles sold in Pakistan are halal, and the factories where they are produced, whether in Pakistan or India (in the case of Maggi), do not look like what was shown in the video. On July 18 2023, Soch Fact Check received a video that was widely shared on WhatsApp groups claiming Maggi noodles are made from rotten flour and pig marrow. The video shows  an informal and unhygenic manufacturing operation and alleges that this is how big brands such as Maggi make instant noodles.  The video also claims that the noodles are harmful to health and can cause cancer.It is an independent organisation accredited by the Pakistan National Accreditation Council (PNAC) that verifies the compliance of food products with Islamic dietary laws. They do not contain any pig marrow or any other animal-derived ingredients.
Contrary to claims, the Imran Khan enclosures at Multan and Lahore stadiums have not been removed as confirmed by the PCB. The tickets for the enclosure are still being sold online. Umar Farooq Kalson, head of the media department of PCB, confirmed to Soch Fact Check that the Imran Khan enclosures have not been removed. “It’s absolutely not true. Imran Khan enclosure was live for Multan games and there are still tickets left for Lahore leg,” he said. Soch Fact Check also checked the official website where tickets are being sold and found that the Imran Khan enclosure’s tickets are available for the upcoming Asia Cup match between Nepal and Afghanistan on 3 September at Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore, and for the other matches being played in Pakistan as well. The tickets retail between Rs 2000 to 6000.
The posts claiming to show Virat Kohli and Babar Azam together in Faisalabad during the 3006 U-19 World Cup in Pakistan are false, and Azam is not in them. Babar Azam was only 12 years old in 2006 and did not play in the competition. This tweet was viewed 185,000 times and interacted with 3,741 times on Twitter. Moreover, a reverse image search of a screenshot from the video revealed it is actually a video of Virat Kohli viral in India from the same tournament, which has been reported on many times by Indian websites, but there is no mention of Babar Azam being present in any of the articles. Scoopwhoop identifies the well-known players present in the video, including Cheteshwar Pujara and Piyush Chawla; they make no mention of Babar Azam or any Pakistan players being present.
The image is digitally manipulated; Khan originally appeared clean shaved in the picture in question amid reports of poor jail facilities.On 22 August 2023, the Instagram account @iloveimrankhan._ posted (archive) an image showing Imran Khan  the former prime minister and chief of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) sporting a grey beard and grey hair, with a pair of black sunglasses, and wearing a black kurta shalwar as he stepped out of a vehicle ahead of a court hearing. Khan “refuses to use the shaving kit provided by the prison administration, so he has grown a beard”, Mir wrote in his post on X (formerly Twitter), which included a snippet of his programme in which the PTI chief’s lawyer, Barrister Gohar Khan, was invited.
Both Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. , and the image’s creator confirmed that the picture was generated by artificial intelligence and is not from bathrobe on the steps of the U.S. Capitol.. The photo is in response to the Senate’s relaxed dress code, which has caused controversy among politicians. Charles confirmed to PolitiFact that he created these images using AI. And Paul himself got in on the joke and retweeted the image writing, "I thought I was clear when I said no photographs." Many credited Fetterman’s attire with inspiring the dress code change, which was previously suit and ties for men. Fetterman regularly wears hooded sweatshirts and gym clothes on Capitol Hill and has taken to voting from the Democratic cloakroom doorway in his otherwise prohibited attire, according to The Associated Press.
PolitiFact found no evidence to support claims that giant human skeletons have been discovered and documented. In 2012, researchers found that a skeleton dating back to the third century had a rare growth condition called pituitary gigantism. They estimated that person would have been about 6. 5 feet tall. We’ve got a bone to pick with this claim: It’s unsubstantiated. PolitiFact found no corroborating evidence suggesting these giant skeletons had been found, and the claim appears linked to previous ones about giant skeletons that have repeatedly been debunked. In the article, researchers concluded that an unusually tall skeleton uncovered during an archaeological excavation near Rome had been "affected by pituitary gigantism, a rare growth disease. "
Poland has increased its military presence along its border with Belarus, Russia’s ally, but hasn’t declared war against either country including russia.
In Afghanistan, while 13 Marines were killed during the U. S. withdrawal in 2021, no Marines were left behind and none remain there today there. In Russia, Paul Whelan was taken into custody in 2018, and was not part of the prisoner exchange involving WNBA star Britney Griner. He is a U. S. Marine Corps veteran, but was discharged from the Marines in 2008 after being convicted on charges related to larceny. He was in Russia as a private citizen, not on Marine business. That said, the U. S. Marine Corps itself uses the slogan “Once a Marine, Always a Marine. ”
No, news cameras didn’t shut off when Biden was asked about giving hit list to Taliban.A reporter did ask Biden about reports that his administration gave the Taliban a list of evacuating American and Afghan officials during an Aug. 26 public appearance. However, the exchange didn’t take place as described in the post, and news footage of the event doesn’t shut off as he responds. ​Biden did field questions about allegations that his administration gave a list of evacuating American and Afghan officials to the Taliban. However, the exchange didn’t take place as described, and news footage of the appearance doesn’t cut out. 
Schumer is wrong that among Americans in Afghanistan, “all” who “have wanted to come out have come out.” On Sept. 7, the State Department acknowledged that there are still “somewhere around 100” American citizens who want to leave Afghanistan. That’s incorrect; the State Department has acknowledged that there are still "somewhere around 100" American citizens who want to leave Afghanistan. Schumer’s office later said that he had misspoken. We rate the statement False. Meanwhile, the current count of Afghans who want to leave but haven’t been able to evacuate yet is uncertain. However, as of late August, there were an estimated 250,000, according to estimates by nonprofits cited by the New York Times.
Photos show service members killed in 2017 military plane crash, not 2021 Kabul suicide bombing.These photos show 15 Marines and a Navy corpsman killed in a military plane crash in Mississippi in 2017.  On Aug. 29, a military transport plane carrying the remains of 11 Marines, a Navy medic and an Army staff sergeant landed in Delaware. Military Times published their photos, which are different from the photos that appear in the Facebook post. This post was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
No evidence that US Air Force plane evacuating Afghanistan airport was fake as it is orignal and true . The U.S. has flown more than 82,000 people out of Afghanistan in recent days. In one of the largest airlifts in U.S. history, the U.S. flew 82,300 people out of Kabul between Aug. 14 and the afternoon of Aug. 25, according to official figures. These included a mix of U.S. citizens, green card holders, recipients of a special immigrant visa for helping the U.S. military or diplomats, refugees, and people seeking temporary humanitarian parole.Afghans who are cleared to fly to the U.S. are brought to military bases, where vetting continues. 
The people under arrest in a viral social media video  were charged with theft, according to New York police and weren’t detained for sleeping in public concrete blocks, and the video provides no evidence that they were. The video does not include footage of the men sleeping on concrete blocks or any other evidence to support its claim. We emailed the New York Police Department about the video and a spokesperson sent a statement that said the arrest took place at 10:58 p.m. Sept. 14 in front of 237 W. 42nd St. That’s the address of a Target store near Times Square.This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
A viral video does not show Missouri state Sens. Bill Eigel and Nick Schroer using flamethrowers to burn books. The two Republican lawmakers used the devices to burn empty cardboard boxes before the flamethrowers were auctioned off as part of a local conservative group’s fundraiser. The event organizer confirmed that no books were burned. Conservative lawmakers in several states, including Missouri, have been pushing to restrict certain books from schools and libraries. Missouri enacted a law last year that banned books with sexually explicit content from school libraries, which led to the removal of almost 300 books across the state.
Former House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., wasn’t arrested.Although the detention of any member of Congress, let alone the longtime representative, would draw broad media attention, we found no news reports or other credible sources to corroborate the claim that she was arrested. We also found nothing to substantiate the claim in PACER, a database of federal court records.
Story about Navy SEALs saving missing kids in Maui is fabricated as There is no credible evidence, such as news reports or statements from the U.S. Navy, that such a rescue took place.The story was originally shared by a website known for fabricating news stories.Only 31 people remain unaccounted for after the Maui wildfires.  Although detailed and creative in its storytelling, there is no evidence that these events occurred. We rate the claim that Navy SEALs rescued 15 missing children from cages in Maui False.This is not Real Raw News’ first fabricated story about the Maui fires. On Aug 24, PolitiFact debunked the site’s viral claim that U.S. Marine Corps and Federal Emergency Management Agency employees were caught in a gunfight.
This video is not recent and isn’t related to clown attack in paris as it’s from a 2015 news broadcast. It shows a crowd in Paris that began running because of a potential gun threat, which turned out to be a false alarm. Clowns were neither involved nor pictured. The clown hysteria began in 2016 with unsubstantiated reports of clowns trying to lure children into the woods in Greenville, South Carolina. Soon after, numerous reports of similar creepy clown sightings popped up across the country — most of which were hoaxes or pranks. We rate the claim that a video shows an April 2023 clown attack in Paris False. We searched for credible news reports of recent clown attacks in Paris and found none.
No proof the World Economic Forum called for ‘COVID-19 concentration camps’as this claim originated from The People’s Voice, a site that frequently publishes false information. The article offered no evidence and we found no proof to support the claim. We searched Nexis news archives and Google and did not find any press releases or legitimate news reports that support the claim. A five-judge panel is expected to decide on the New York case in a few months.We rate the claim that the World Economic Forum is calling "for COVID concentration camps" False.
We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make  $500 payment to customers. Then came the catch. we did not take the bait. We also found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make any such payment to customers. We rate this post False.The post claims that recent Walmart customers are entitled to $500 from the company. After filling out a survey via the link and indicating that we hadn’t shopped there before, we received a notification that we were qualified to try to win a prize. 
No, Donald Trump didn’t call Michelle Obama ‘Mike’ in a tweet.Searching X, the website formerly known as Twitter, we found no such tweets in either Obama’s or Trump’s feeds. We also found no news coverage or other credible sources reporting such an exchange. Previous tweets from Trump directed at the former first lady drew media attention, and a charge in which he questioned her birth name would certainly inspire multiple articles. But there are none. We rate claims this supposed tweet from Trump is authentic False.
We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make  $500 payment to customers from 2022. Then came the catch. we did not take the bait. We also found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make any such payment to customers. We rate this post False.The post claims that recent Walmart customers are entitled to $500 from the company. After filling out a survey via the link and indicating that we hadn’t shopped there before, we received a notification that we were qualified to try to win a prize. 
No, former President Barack Obama didn’t reveal how his personal chef died.The state’s office of the chief medical examiner ruled his death an accident. Obama remembered Campbell in social media posts, writing that he "showed us what true character looks like" and said, "I’ll miss him every day." We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources  that Obama revealed that Campbell died in some other "mysterious" way. A recent Facebook post floats the idea that former President Barack Obama recently divulged new information about how his family’s personal chef died. 
In Westport, Connecticut, drones are not “scanning (people) for COVID-19 symptoms” as   Westport Police Department spokesperson told PolitiFact the department is not using drones for this purpose. Lt. Eric Woods, a Westport Police Department spokesperson, told PolitiFact he’s "not sure why this is coming up today, but no we do not use drones for this purpose."We rate the claim that in Westport, Connecticut, "drones are "scanning (people) for COVID-19 symptoms" False.Soon after it was announced, residents and organizations, including the ACLU’s Connecticut branch, opposed the plan over privacy concerns. Two days after the police department announced the program, it scrapped the plan.
A 2021 World Economic Forum video used the COVID-19 pandemic as an analogy to warn world leaders to prepare for potentially damaging cyberattacks but There is no evidence it was code for a broader conspiracy involving COVID-19 spread.We rate the claim that a World Economic Forum video reveals a conspiracy behind COVID-19 spread False.But claims that the COVID-19 pandemic was planned are false and have been debunked many times. And the World Economic Forum video, which you can watch in full below, is not using subtext to reveal its global plot to spread a virus.
Trump’s White House website shows that trump gave Fauci the recognition on his last day in office.Presidential commendations are a public recognition of someone’s achievements or contributions to the country. We found examples of these being given to everyday people.Trump’s campaign did not answer our requests for comment.  But it has since grabbed the attention of at least one competitor. Trump’s opponent for the Republican nomination, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, has criticized Trump’s decision to give Fauci a commendation. A review of Nexis news archives and a Google advanced search shows that the commendation got little news coverage as Trump prepared to leave the White House and Biden prepared to be sworn in.
No, CNN did not break news about a Pentagon ‘plan to implant Americans with nanotech particles’.No, CNN did not break news about a Pentagon ‘plan to implant Americans with nanotech particles’.The Pentagon did not announce a plan to "implant Americans with nanotech particles," and CNN reported no such "breaking news."Neither CNN nor any other reputable media outlets announced any such breaking news about nanotech implants, either. We searched news stories through Nexis news archives and advanced Google search and did not see any reports that supported the claim. We found no evidence after doing a keyword search of the U.S. Defense Department’s website and checking its press releases.
More than 60 people missing after Maui fires, not 1,000 children.More than a month after deadly wildfires ravaged the community of Lahaina on Maui, Hawaii,  an Instagram post claims that hundreds of children are still unaccounted for. The police department and the FBI have released a list of the names of 66 people who had been reported unaccounted for as of Sept. 9, two days before this Instagram post was made. A spokesperson for the Maui Joint Information Center told fact-checking site Lead Stories that number was current as of Sept. 11 but wouldn’t give the people’s ages. But we found no credible evidence to support the claim in the post. 
An "unreleased photograph of the late queen" was issued by the palace Sept. 7 to mark the anniversary of her death,  We rate claims that this Instagram image is an authentic photo of the queen False.Reverse-image searches on multiple sites Google, Bing, Yandex, TinEye  turned up no other instances of this photo appearing online. Considering the broad, breathless news coverage the royal family draws, it’s unbelievable that a newly released photo of the queen on the day she died would merit no media reports beyond an Instagram account with about 3,500 followers.
This video is from a 1985 documentary about native Hawaiians being arrested and evicted on a beach in Honolulu, which is more than 100 miles from Maui not from maui , where the wildfires ignited in August.We rate that claim that the video shows Hawaiians being evicted after the Maui wildfires False.Hawaiian video production company Nā Maka o ka ’Āina, or "The Eyes of the Land," produced the 37-minute documentary, which aired in 1985 on PBS Hawaii and local public broadcast channels.The video is from the trailer for a documentary about the June 3, 1985, evictions of native Hawaiians living on Waimānalo Beach Park in Honolulu. The state capital is on the island of Oahu, more than 100 miles from Maui.
No, Congress isn’t printing election ballots without Donald Trump's name.The TikTok also includes a clip of a Sept. 3 episode of "CNN Newsroom with Jim Acosta. " But neither Acosta nor his guest — Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson — claimed Congress plans to print ballots without Trump’s name. That’s because Congress never made such a plan. First, state and local administrators run elections. Congress doesn’t print election ballots. Second, Acosta and Benson were discussing the theory that Trump could be barred from a second term because "the 14th Amendment’s disqualification clause expressly forbids anyone from serving who’s engaged in an insurrection or rebellion against the government. "
Joe Biden visited ground zero nine days after 9/11, not ‘the next day’. To mark the 22nd anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, President Joe Biden recalled visiting the site where the World Trade Center towers fell. On Sept. 20, 2001, CNN reported that "one of the largest groups of U.S. senators ever to travel together outside Washington arrived in New York on Thursday to tour the World Trade Center wreckage and console the victims’ families. New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani has repeatedly urged lawmakers to visit the site in order to understand the scope of the disaster, and what help will be needed for recovery."
We rate claims that the video of Pope Francis slapping Trump’s hand is authentic False. The post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. (Read more about our partnership with Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram. ) The original footage of Trump and the pope meeting shows no such hand play. That’s because the clip was created in 2017 by "Jimmy Kimmel Live. " The comedy show host was making a joke about a moment a few days earlier, when then-first lady Melania Trump appeared to be seen swatting away her husband’s hand after they disembarked from a plane in Israel.
We rate claims this video shows someone trying to escape Burning Man False. Heavy rainfall flooded roads and created ankle-deep mud that prompted Burning Man organizers to stop traffic in and out of Black Rock City, the temporary city created for the festival in Nevada’s Black Rock Desert. But the downpours didn’t start until Sept. 1 two weeks after the social media posts.  The video footage appeared online as early as Aug. 15, when someone posted it to Instagram. Someone who posted it on TikTok the same day wrote that it was shot near South Padre Island, Texas.
No, President Joe Biden didn’t say the Maui, Hawaii, wildfires were ‘planned’. President Joe Biden said Aug. 31 that the Federal Emergency Management Agency response coordinator was already in Hawaii when the fires started. The FEMA official was there for a pre-scheduled meeting.Authorities are still investigating the Hawaii wildfires’ causes, but significant attention has been focused on the role the island’s aging power infrastructure played, along with drought, high winds and invasive grass.  Robert Fenton Jr. is the regional administrator for Region 9, which includes Hawaii, of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Biden appointed him Aug. 21 as the "chief federal response coordinator" for Maui to oversee "the long-term coordinated federal recovery as Hawaii rebuilds" from wildfires there, according to a statement ithe White House issued that same day.
A deepfake video showing Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis dropping out of the 2024 presidential race was first shared by an X account that made it clear it was manipulated. But then another account shared the video without that same disclosure and said it was "breaking news. "Inconsistencies in the video signal it was manipulated, including lack of breathing sounds as he spoke; blurry teeth; and out-of-sync audio and video.We’ve seen ads that support Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis for president employ artificial intelligence to malign DeSantis’ opponents and boost DeSantis. But a recent anti-DeSantis video used AI to do the opposite.
Tafari Campbell’s widow didn’t expose the Obama family, contrary to social media claims. This video offers no evidence that the wife of the late Tafari Campbell, personal chef to the Obama family, "exposed" the Obama family in any way or blamed them for her husband’s death. We also found no evidence to support the claim.Tafari Campbell, who was the Obama family’s personal chef, drowned accidentally more than a month ago. But conspiracy theories and rumors linger online that cast aspersions on the former president. But the video doesn’t address a supposed "exposure." In fact, it doesn’t mention Campbell or his wife at all. Rather than elaborating on the allegation that Campbell’s widow recently exposed the Obama family, the video’s narrator delves into an old debunked claim that the late comedian, Joan Rivers, was killed after she made comments about former President Barack Obama’s sexuality and former first lady Michelle Obama’s gender identity. 
This video shows a waterspout on Clearwater Beach, Florida, in June, not Hurricane Idalia making landfall in August. A whirling column of mist moves from sea to shore, whipping up beach towels, chairs and more in a recent Facebook video labeled "Clearwater Beach, Florida." But this video doesn’t show Hurricane Idalia making landfall Aug. 30. It was taken at Clearwater Beach and shows a waterspout moving ashore there in June.  This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. Two people went to the hospital with minor injuries after being struck by debris, the department said. In both videos, plenty of people can be seen on the beach. But before Hurricane Idalia made landfall, Pinellas County, which includes Clearwater, ordered the mandatory evacuation of some areas, such as the coast.
No, there’s no Florida law requiring fathers take a DNA test to sign their child’s birth certificate. We found no evidence of any Florida law that requires fathers to complete DNA testing before they can sign their children’s birth certificates. A new state paternity law makes it easier for many fathers to assume parental responsibility. The law acknowledges unmarried fathers’ rights by expanding a state statute that previously defaulted natural guardianship to the mother. Fathers can establish paternity by signing a form in front of a notary public in a hospital at the child’s birth.
No connection between Gates-funded modified ticks, meat allergy. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation awarded two grants to Oxitec, a biotechnology firm, to research genetically modifying the Asian blue tick, a common pest affecting cattle in some parts of the world.Oxitec said its modified ticks have not been introduced in the wild. Research has taken place only in United Kingdom labs so far. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said there’s been a rise since 2010 in alpha-gal syndrome, an allergy that’s connected to tick bites. But the CDC said that, in the U.S., the Lone Star tick is largely responsible for spreading the allergy not the Asian blue tick. In addition, the Asian blue tick largely has been eradicated from the U.S., experts said.
Altered video appears to show Elon Musk talking about a ‘passive income’ opportunity and It’s fake.The butchered grammar is just one clue that this isn’t an authentic offer, interview or video. It’s been altered, and this post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.Alex Heath, an editor for The Verge, tweeted at the time that Musk talked about the company  not Quantum AI. He took questions from employees and hinted about possible future layoffs. We’ve fact-checked previous claims trying to link Musk to Quantum AI, a supposed cryptocurrency software, but have found no evidence that he’s connected. 
Image of Fox News chyron calling UNC shooting suspect a ‘mostly white Asian’ is fabricated and altered. Images showing a Fox News chyron calling the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill shooting suspect a "mostly white Asian male," are fabricated. An Aug. 29 Instagram post shared an image that looked like a Fox News chyron and read, "Shooter described as ‘mostly white Asian male,’ with a red circle around those words. The Instagram post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. We found several other social media posts sharing the image of the Fox News chyron. But the image is fabricated.
Wildfires in Canada were caused by record heat and drought and  there is no evidence they were set deliberately or linked to efforts to advance "smart cities" push. There have been no reports the Canadian wildfires were set intentionally. The government has said the 2023 wildfires, 5,738 in all, have been especially widespread and severe because of continued drought and warmer temperatures.Reuters reported Aug. 19 that Canadian officials cited drought for the wildfires, which also affected air quality in parts of the U.S. Most of the wildfires are believed to have been caused accidentally by human activity, the report said. 
Social media posts spread unfounded rumors about Obamas, their late personal chef Tafari Campbell.We found no evidence to support this claim. The drowning death of Tafari Campbell, the Obamas’ personal chef, was ruled accidental. On Aug. 3, she posted photos of Campbell on Facebook and said: "I will miss you my friend, Tafari the emptiness is hard. But I promise to stay strong, keep living, and honor your legacy in every way possible. Rest in peace, my brother."The video never says when or where Obama supposedly made these comments. We looked for news reports or other credible sources to corroborate this post’s claims and found no evidence about former first lady Michelle Obama “accidentally revealing what really happened to their chef.”
Video doesn’t show ‘Great Britain now’ with people underwater as the viral Clips are misrepresented. There are no credible reports that 78,000 people are "under the water" in Great Britain. This video contains numerous clips from past weather events, some of which are not in Britain. The video’s opening image was not from a disaster at all but from a staged 2019 climate protest near London’s Tower Bridge.But a close look showed the video’s premise doesn’t hold up. Of its 14 clips showing footage of severe weather incidents, we found 10 were misrepresented. We couldn’t trace the other four to their original sources. We rate the claim that a video showed "78,000 people under the water" now in Great Britain False.
False rumors about gunshots fired at a South Hanna Carolina high school spread on social media.We rate claims that gunshots were fired and someone was injured at this South Carolina high school False."No school in Anderson Five is experiencing any situation, and the sheriff’s office is actively investigating the origins of these social media posts," the statement said. The district and the Anderson County Sheriff’s Office posted a statement Aug. 28 on Facebook to rebut the "fabricated posts of false incidents." He said the same account shared other unfounded rumors about the district, including that two people were dead at an elementary school and two were dead at a middle school. 
Tafari Campbell’s drowning death was accidental, he wasn’t murdered, according to medical examiner. Campbell wasn’t murdered, officials said. And state police have said Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama weren’t home when Campbell was seen struggling in the water July 23 while paddleboarding near the Obamas’ Martha’s Vineyard home off the Massachusetts coast. Campbell wasn’t murdered, officials said. And state police have said Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama weren’t home when Campbell was seen struggling in the water July 23 while paddleboarding near the Obamas’ Martha’s Vineyard home off the Massachusetts coast. 
Maui blames electric utility for blazes, not Oprah and There’s no evidence to support this claim.   Maui County, meanwhile, has accused Hawaiian Electric, an electric utility on the island, of causing the fire. Hawaiian Electric has said its power lines were responsible for one of two fires in Lahaina, but that the historic town was ravaged by a different fire, Reuters reported. A team of U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives investigators was recently dispatched to Maui to determine the fire’s origin and cause. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
No, Tafari Campbell’s mother didn’t accuse former President Barack Obama in her son’s death. State police have said former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama weren’t home July 23 when Campbell, 45, was seen struggling in the water while paddleboarding near the Obamas’ Martha’s Vineyard summer home off the Massachusetts coast. His body was found the next day. We found no mention of Campbell’s mother in coverage about his death, nor could we confirm her name. We also found no news stories or other credible evidence that Campbell’s mother said such a thing or issued a public statement about his death or held a press conference. 
As of Aug. 28, no bodies from the wildfires had washed  up ashore on Lanai. It’s true that dozens of people fled the fire by retreating into the Pacific Ocean,  enduring the cold water and noxious fumes from the flames. And hundreds of other people are still unaccounted for, according to The New York Times. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
No, a doctor in Malaysia wasn’t executed for giving a COVID-19 vaccine under the (Nuremberg) Code.Malaysia has had a moratorium on executions since 2018 as the country began debating abolishing the death penalty. The country has supported COVID-19 vaccination; in 2021, the nation required federal employees to get vaccinated. The Nuremberg Code is a set of principles related to medical experiments on humans. The COVID-19 vaccines are not experimental — they were deemed safe in clinical trials with willing participants. A Facebook video is recycling a claim that alleges a doctor was executed in Malaysia for killing a person with a COVID-19 vaccine.
Claims about FEMA, Red Cross “confiscating” donations to Hawaii victims are False. A statement provided by the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency’s Joint Information Center said that items were sorted and wrapped in plastic because during the disaster’s early stages, there was no designated storage building. Some of those items were clothing and food that could be stored safely at room temperature. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told people to not believe the misinformation circulating on social media about the fires and emergency aid. We rate the claim that FEMA has been "confiscating" Hawaii’s disaster supplies False. A Hawaii Defense Department spokesperson, Jeffrey Hickman, also told USA Today that the state had not heard any reports of donations being confiscated.The American Red Cross’ congregate shelters have since closed and people have been moved into hotels and Airbnbs, where they are being provided with food, medical services and other assistance, according to Hawaii Emergency Management Agency’s Joint Information Center. 
Tenerife wildfire has no connection to smart city concept. The fire burned about 37,000 acres of woodland, but did not affect main cities or tourist areas, officials said. Smart cities refer to cities that use technology to help them run more efficiently and improve quality of life. Installing such technology would not require the destruction of cities, despite social media claims tying the concept to fires in Maui and Tenerife. Wildfires are not unusual in Europe. Data from the European Forest Fire Information System shows that more than 83,000 hectares (about 206,000 acres) of land has burned in Spain this year, slightly more than the annual average there.
Dr. Anthony Fauci did not say unvaccinated people should be ‘locked down’ this winter.Dr. Anthony Fauci stepped down as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and has no power to declare a lockdown.  He did not make any statement urging the Biden administration to implement a lockdown for unvaccinated Americans in 2023. During the interview, which lasted around 40 minutes, Fauci discussed misinformation against vaccines and discussed the rationale for lockdowns, but he did not say unvaccinated people should be placed under a lockdown. 
Video shows reflected light from wet surface, not flooded Dodger Stadium.The helicopter pilot who took the video said there was "significant" water on the surface, but it "primarily displays wet concrete reflected by light." The Dodgers shared images of a dry stadium and parking lot the next morning. A TikTok video claimed that Dodger Stadium was flooded after Tropical Storm Hilary hit Los Angeles. The image in the video comes from real footage captured from a helicopter, but the pilot who took it said the video shows "wet concrete reflected by light" and copious water on the parking lot’s surface.The Dodgers posted images of a dry parking lot and stadium the next morning. We rate the claim that Dodger Stadium was flooded False.
Maui, Hawaii, police have arrested people who trespassed in a disaster area that has been restricted because of recent wildfires not witnesses. Claims officers are arresting witnesses in some sort of cover-up are unfounded. The mayor’s emergency proclamation, which limits movement within the wildfire disaster area, was signed Aug. 11 and cited "continuing catastrophic conditions that affect the health and safety of a large number of people." Claims these people were arrested as part of a cover-up are unfounded. We rate them False.Josepha Toakala was arrested Aug. 18 in connection with rules and orders outlined in the Maui County mayor’s emergency proclamation related to the fires, the department said. Toakala had been warned Aug. 14 to avoid the wildfire disaster area in Lahaina and was taken into custody after being found there again, the department added. 
Video doesn’t show President Joe Biden dozing and sleeping during event with Maui, Hawaii, wildfire survivors.But a closer look at a video clip showed the president was blinking and nodding as a speaker spoke. Biden wasn't sleeping.At first glance, it seems Biden might have dozed off. But a closer look at the full video showed that this wasn’t so. At the 5:13 mark of a video of the event uploaded by KITV, a Honolulu ABC News affiliate, Biden bowed his head. Zooming into the video shows that he was still blinking.fter about 10 seconds, Biden nods as the speaker says, "We are a community that relies on family, on ohana, whether by blood or by friendship." (Ohana is a Hawaiian word for family.)
Articles of impeachment weren’t filed against President Joe Biden on Aug. 19, despite the claim of a Facebook post published that day. It was posted on YouTube on May 18, when Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., introduced articles of impeachment against Biden over how he’s handled migrant crossings at the U.S.-Mexico border. Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., introduced articles of impeachment against Biden in June, and Rep. Greg-Steube, R-Fla., filed articles of impeachment against the president Aug. 11.  But no such articles were filed against Biden on Aug. 19. We rate that claim False.
No, the World Economic Forum did not say the Maui wildfires were orchestrated.The cause of the wildfires has not been identified, but authorities have pointed to dry conditions, low humidity and high winds as contributing factors. The island’s aging electric power infrastructure is also under scrutiny. There is no evidence the disaster was an intentional effort to build a 15-minute city in Maui. The cause of the wildfires has not been identified, but the Hawaii Army National Guard pointed to dry conditions, low humidity and high winds as contributing factors. Investigators are also increasingly focused on the role the island’s aging electric power infrastructure played in the disaster.
No evidence direct energy weapons caused Maui wildfires. Investigators have not yet determined a single cause for the fires, although attention is increasingly focused on the role downed power lines may have played. Drought conditions and high winds likely contributed to the wildfires’ quick spread, officials say. The U.S. and other governments are exploring using direct energy weapons for military purposes, but experts say there is no evidence they played a role in the Hawaii wildfires. The wildfires that ignited Aug. 8 in Maui, Hawaii, have killed more than 100 people and destroyed thousands of structures in the historic town of Lahaina.
The timing of a book’s publication about the Maui wildfires is not proof that the fires were planned. Details in the book’s online summary and introduction appear to be drawn from publicly available information already reported by the media and Maui County. The author’s name appears to be a pseudonym, and a person using the same pseudonym published at least 15 other books within a three-month period, including one the day after the Maui book was published.  This led to speculation that the books might have been produced using artificial intelligence, which draws from information already available online.
The FDA didn’t reverse course and Ivermectin is still not approved as a COVID-19 treatment.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is authorized to provide guidance on drugs and convey that information to the public. When the FDA approves a medication, it means the agency considers the drug safe and effective for its intended use. Doctors still may prescribe drugs off-label for unapproved uses based on their medical judgment, the FDA says. The FDA has not changed its guidance on ivermectin. It has not approved the drug for use in preventing or treating COVID-19. Recently, an attorney representing the FDA said the agency’s guidelines about ivermectin do not prevent doctors from prescribing the drug off-label, or for different, non-FDA-approved uses. The attorney did not say ivermectin is approved by the agency as a treatment for COVID-19.
The federal government did not declare a "food shortage emergency," despite a claim by a YouTuber user who makes frequent allegations about emergencies in six states. The additional grazing or haying is allowed when there is at least 40% loss in production of forage, such as hay, according to the Agriculture Department. Forage is a plant, such as hay, eaten by livestock. Humphrey has made similar claims that PolitiFact has debunked, including one about "massive explosions" and one about a poison emergency. There was no federal declaration of a food shortage emergency. We rate the Facebook post False.
No, Hawaii fires weren’t set intentionally to turn Maui into a ‘smart island’. Officials have not determined the cause of wildfires that have killed dozens of people in Hawaii, but there’s been no public evidence they were set intentionally. The urban planning concept of smart cities was among many topics discussed at a January technology conference in Maui. None of the research papers presented at the conference discussed turning Maui into a "smart island."Smart cities is a concept that suggests using technology to enhance government services, and residents’ lives. It wouldn’t require the destruction of a city to enact. The concept of smart cities was among many topics researchers broached at a January conference in Maui, but the research was not specific to Maui.
The original creator of the Bud Light billboard explained in a follow-up video that he fabricated the image saying  “lol CRYBABIES” appearing on the sign based on a Disney+ billboard is fake. An executive with Branded Cities, the actual Disney+ billboard’s owner, told The Associated Press the Bud Light billboard was fabricated. The actual billboard is in Toronto and, in the lower-right corner displayed the name of an advertising company called Branded Cities. PolitiFact asked the advertising company for comment, but did not hear back. However, The Associated Press in April reported that an executive there told them the Bud Light billboard was fabricated. We rate the video that shows a Bud Light billboard that says "lol CRYBABIES" False.
No evidence direct energy weapons on the people caused hawai fires. Investigators have not yet determined a single cause for the fires, although attention is increasingly focused on the role downed power lines may have played. Drought conditions and high winds likely contributed to the wildfires’ quick spread, officials say. The U.S. and other governments are exploring using direct energy weapons for military purposes, but experts say there is no evidence they played a role in the Hawaii wildfires. The wildfires that ignited Aug. 8 in Maui, Hawaii, have killed more than 100 people and destroyed thousands of structures in the historic town of Lahaina.
Fabricated story about Vladimir Putin banning 5G in Russia repackaged on social media. We found no evidence that Putin has banned 5G technology or destroyed 5G towers in Russia.  Real Raw News’ website includes an "About Us" page with a disclaimer that says it contains "humor, parody and satire," and PolitiFact has debunked many of the fantastical, false stories the site has published.  We rate this post False. In 2019, Russian network RT America aired a segment warning about 5G’s supposed dire health threats, The New York Times reported, even as Putin "ordered the launch of Russian 5G networks in a tone evoking optimism rather than doom."  
No, golfer John Daly didn’t say "choking" about soccer star Megan Rapinoe. The handle for the account, @PGATUOR, identifies itself as a satire account.  Daly didn’t respond to PolitiFact’s question about the post, but we found no evidence that he actually said this.  We rate claims that he did False. A post sharing the image was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.But some supposed caustic game commentary from golfer John Daly that’s being shared on social media originated on a satire account.
California law did not reduce penalties for having sex with children. A 2020 California law changed how sex offenders are added to the state’s sex offender registry. It did not reduce penalties for having sex with minors. ​Nothing in the legislation changed penalties for statutory rape, which California prosecutors can charge as  a misdemeanor or felony. It remains illegal for any adult to have any type of sex with a minor.The California law did not reduce penalties for having sex with children. We rate the Instagram post False.
Among more than 100 publicly released polls dating to October 2021, none shows Vice President Kamala Harris with  good approval ratings. FiveThirtyEight, a polling aggregation website, shows the average for Harris’ recent approval polls have hovered around 12 points "underwater." The most recent poll in which more people approved than disapproved of Harris’ performance was  more than 100 publicly released polls ago, in October 2021. Her FiveThirtyEight average is hovering at about 12 points underwater, and hasn’t been less than 9 points underwater during the past 18 months. We rate the statement False.
Altered and fabricated video appears to show Republican presidential candidate Will Hurd getting interrupted on ‘The View’. This video was altered by someone who called the edited version "satirical." The video then cuts to what looks like a speechless Whoopi Goldberg, who co-hosts the show, as Hurd is rendered speechless. Rather, the man — Damon Imani — created the altered video now circulating social media. The handle @damonimani can be seen faintly in the video’s corner.  He called the video satirical on Twitter. We rate claims that this video is authentic False.
Video doesn’t show President Joe Biden sleeping during TV interview.An old clip of President Joe Biden answering a question about his intention to run for reelection in 2024 is recirculating social media.In the interview, Biden is asked whether his wife supports him running for reelection. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. Biden looks down during the interview, but he doesn’t fall asleep, as the post claims. We rate that claim False.
Conspiracy theorists falsely claim ‘Disease X’ is the next ‘plandemic’..This work is part of the "100 Days Mission," a global effort to make safe and effective vaccines against any potential pandemic threat within 100 days of identification. It is not evidence that scientists are plotting the next pandemic.At the recently opened research center in southwest England, scientists are working to prepare for Disease X by assessing animal viruses that could infect humans and pathogens that do not yet have a vaccine. Scientists will also identify areas where immunizations could be improved, such as with flu shots or mpox vaccinations, The Guardian reported.According to the WHO, Disease X "represents the knowledge that a serious international epidemic could be caused by a pathogen currently unknown to cause human disease."
This video doesn’t show Attorney General Merrick Garland as he "cries like a kid" as he is not in the video at all.

The US and 12 other countries did not agree to ‘abolish farming’ to mitigate climate change.A caption claimed a video showed Garland crying after a confrontation with Greene related to Trump’s arraignment.It does not show Garland crying. He does not appear once in the 11-minute video. We rate this claim False. After his testimony, another lawmaker is recognized, and the clip of the House hearing cuts off. The Facebook video’s final minutes feature a drawing tutorial.Hansen shared his version of the events that happened on Jan. 6 and said that he was never questioned by the House select committee investigating the Capitol attack. 
Claim that Klaus Schwab’s daughter warned of climate lockdowns is from misinformation site. We found no evidence that World Economic Forum founder Klaus Schwab’s daughter Nicole Schwab warned of imminent "permanent climate lockdowns." The viral headline originated on a site known for publishing misinformation, and the article was written by a person known for spreading conspiracy theories and false claims. Her remarks were a nod to a set of World Economic Forum policy ideas for economic recovery during the pandemic coined "The Great Reset." The initiative sparked a widely debunked conspiracy theory, which holds that elites who intend to establish a totalitarian global regime used the coronavirus to depopulate the earth and reorganize society.


There is no new federal law that lets people erase unpaid debt from their credit records after only two years. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau told PolitiFact that consumers can request to see the personal data consumer reporting agencies maintain and dispute the information if it’s incorrect, and doing so does not affect credit scores. "Companies must provide a reasonable investigation for free," the bureau said.We found no changes in the law that would support the Instagram post’s claim. Experts told The Associated Press in a July 27 story that there have been no legislative changes that would let consumers remove negative, but accurate, information after just two years.
Skin cancer did not emerge in the last 60 years as it dates to at least 1804. The video, which shows scenes of people outside in the sun, included audio of an unidentified woman describing what she says is a Baylor University study about exposing animals to the sun’s ultraviolet rays. Scientists have recognized skin cancers for more than 200 years, since at least 1804, according to the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology.Baylor University told Reuters in 2022 that it has no record of the study Day refers to. 
Claim misrepresents removal of 500,000 fugitives from background check database which is not true.This claim misrepresented a 2017 Washington Post report about hundreds of thousands of "fugitives from justice" being purged from the background check database for gun purchases. The report did not specify that the people removed were pedophiles.This misrepresents an FBI directive that purged hundreds of thousands of names from the National Instant Criminal Background Check System because the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel adopted a new definition of "fugitives from justice." The directive was issued after Trump became president. However, the fugitives’ criminal background was not specified, so we found no evidence the fugitives were composed only of pedophiles.
Social media post misleadingly presents old news as a recent attempt to assassinate Donald Trump which is not true. On Nov. 5 that year, Donald Trump, then a presidential candidate, was rushed off a rally stage by the Secret Service after someone shouted "gun." At the time, some of his supporters claimed Trump had survived an assassination attempt. A weapon was not found at the rally. "At one point during the rally, Austyn Crites, a registered Republican who is supporting Hillary Clinton, made his way towards the front of the crowd," read a CNN report. "He then silently held up a sign that read, ‘Republicans against Trump.’ A scuffle broke out as Trump supporters began pummeling him and attempted to rip the sign away." 
Most of the evidence we found on energy payback says it takes a wind turbine operating for months, not years, to produce more energy than was needed to manufacture it  so the viral claim on social media is false."In general, as technology advances, the energy payback times will decline," said Ryan Wiser, senior scientist in the Electricity Markets and Policy Department at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, California.Modern windmills generally produce in months more energy than was needed to manufacture them, experts,  research studies and other fact-checkers found.
No, LeBron James did not wear pink for the “Barbie” movie. The photos of LeBron James wearing pink were generated by artificial intelligence. These images are all generated with artificial intelligence, PolitiFact found no evidence that James wore that outfit. Several images circulating on social media claim that Lebron James is dressed in pink for the "Barbie" movie premiere.Wirtschafter said artificial intelligence is raising more concerns as its models get more sophisticated and better at hiding digital flaws. She suggested that artificially generated images  carry a "watermark" to help people differentiate them from authentic images, or the inverse, to avoid spreading the fakes.
Tim Scott is wrong about more illegal immigration under Biden than the previous  under Trump and Obama combined. Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C.'s comparison is complicated, because the COVID-19 pandemic changed how immigration officials tracked illegal immigration.  Available data shows that enforcement actions under President Joe Biden so far have not been higher than the combined figures for the Trump and Obama administrations. Scott’s campaign also used inconsistent metrics to calculate encounter totals and cast a wider net for Biden than for the other two presidents.
Bill Nye did not imply that humans can’t go to space because “the Earth is a closed system as this quote is out of context. He then said the quote cited in the Instagram post about Earth being a "closed system" but added, "There’s no place to throw your trash. " On multiple occasions, Nye has expressed skepticism about settling outside of Earth, saying, "We can’t live anywhere else in the solar system" and people won’t "settle on Mars. " But Nye has acknowledged discoveries made through space exploration. In 2020, he told Space. com, "It's the exploration of space that led to these profound, profound improvements for quality of life for so many of us. " We rate the claim that Bill Nye’s saying "the Earth is a closed system" suggested that space exploration is impossible False.
Beyoncé is not accused of human trafficking; 2020 lawsuit dismissed as ‘frivolous’. The lawsuit was dismissed a month after it was filed as "frivolous" by a judge, who wrote that the claims within "rise to the level of the irrational." We can find no credible evidence that Beyoncé is a defendant in a human trafficking case or has been credibly accused. Beyoncé is in the midst of her Renaissance World Tour, which began in May and continues through October. Surely an explosive charge that she is a defendant in a human trafficking case would garner heavy news coverage, yet we found none.The claim that Beyoncé is a defendant in a human trafficking case, along with other celebrities, dates to a 2020 lawsuit that was dismissed as "frivolous" a month after it was filed. We rate it False.
No, this video doesn’t show Joe Biden leaving midinterview with MSNBC. Some social media users shared a misleading video of President Joe Biden appearing to abruptly walk out of an on-air interview. But it was edited to omit what really happened. A longer clip of Biden’s exit, shared on Twitter, shows Wallace announcing a commercial break. "Don’t go anywhere. It’s a very exciting day around here. We’ll have reaction and analysis to everything we just heard from the president. We’ll be back after a short break. " We rate the claim that a video shows Biden left abruptly amid a live TV interview False. The Facebook video ends after this exchange, cutting off Wallace midsentence as she addressed the cameras and giving the impression that Biden left with the interview in progress.
On July 19, a tornado damaged a Pfizer facility in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. The pharmaceutical company said this facility did not manufacture or full of COVID-19 vaccines so the tornado didn't destroy the warehouse  .Multiple Instagram posts shared July 19 falsely  claimed the Pfizer warehouse destroyed by a tornado was "full of Covid vaccines."More than a dozen people were injured. Pfizer confirmed all 3,200 workers at this facility were able to evacuate.
Unfounded claims blaming COVID vaccine for ESPN analyst Shaka Hislop’s recent collapse spread online as We found no evidence to support the claim that the recent on-air collapse of ESPN soccer analyst Shaka Hislop was connected to a COVID-19 vaccine. That’s not enough to support such a dramatic claim. If evidence does emerge linking what happened to Hislop on July 23 and his COVID-19 shots, we’ll reconsider this ruling. Looking for news reports or other credible sources connecting this vaccination to his recent collapse, we found only speculation. 
Insect swarm at Baltimore festival were likely gnats, not deadly mosquitoes were released from helicopter.Many who attended the festival described the flying insects as gnats, not mosquitoes. An expert told us that mosquitoes do not swarm in the way seen in the video.  We rate the claim False. Tallamy said no sinister plot is afoot with these programs, which are aimed at reducing the population of invasive mosquitoes in the U.S.An Oxitec webpage has an image of the boxes, and this YouTube video by the company shows how it works.
Don't bank on claims that President Joe Biden is transforming the U.S. dollar into a cryptocurrency as the viral claims are fake. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. Biden signed Executive Order 14067 in March 2022. It directed the Federal Reserve to weigh the risks of using digital currency and research the possibility of using a central bank digital currency. Biden also did not transform the dollar into a cryptocurrency. 
Former President Donald Trump was indicted on dozens of charges this spring but a recent Instagram post suggesting that he was arrested in July is wrong. Former President Donald Trump wasn't arrested in July 5. This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed. He surrendered in June in a classified documents case after he was indicted on federal charges in Miami, and he made his first court appearance in a different case in New York in April in connection with alleged hush money payments to a former adult film star. 
Bill Gates has not proposed blocking out the sun with the help of sand storm . Saharan dust clouds regularly make their way from North Africa across the Atlantic Ocean to Florida, especially during the summer months. The clouds  masses of dry, dusty air kicked up from the Sahara desert and carried away by winds  are a naturally occurring phenomenon.  He has donated to Harvard University researchers who are hoping to test spraying aerosols into the stratosphere, a solar geoengineering technology to combat climate change. That test was later called off.
Fourth of July video featuring Hunter Biden wasn’t taken same day cocaine discovered at White House.This video was taken two days after cocaine was discovered at the White House.  White powder found inside the White House turned out to be cocaine, the Washington Post reported, but it was discovered on July 2.  The video of the Bidens was taken on July 4 and shows the family at a Fourth of July celebration.  We rate claims the video was taken the same day cocaine was discovered at the White House False.
Video of old Senate committee hearing witness is sensationalized, and mischaracterized, on social media with false claims.The hearing focused on the independence of federal inspectors general, whose goals are to combat waste, fraud and abuse within their agencies. Hawley asked Lerner about allegations of misconduct by Department of Homeland Security employees, but he never said "the IG is corrupt," nor did Lerner raise the prospect of jail. We rate claims that she cried to Hawley for no jail time False. 
President Joe Biden wasn’t impeached. A Republican representative introduced articles of impeachment against him, but the U.S. House didn’t vote on the resolution. It will be sent for review to the House Judiciary and Homeland Security committees, The Washington Post reported. The Post said the "long-shot effort" was referred to the committees as part of a deal made by House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., "to appease hard-right Republicans within his ranks and avoid a potentially embarrassing split vote among members of the party."We rate claims Biden was impeached False.
There is no evidence to support the claim that the recent deaths of four other doctors were suspicious. Buttar said in a March interview that he had been hospitalized in January, and information shows he had health issues dating to 2016.  The 2015 deaths involved natural causes, a suicide and a murder in which the victim’s husband was convicted. The cause of Buttar’s death has not been revealed, but there’s no evidence that foul play was involved. Buttar said in March that he had been hospitalized, and information shows he had cardiac problems dating to 2016. 
Statements made at a City Council meeting by a man claiming to be Disney executive Alan Bergman were intended to be fake . The man in the video is Mark Dice, a conservative YouTuber, who often speaks at local council meetings in the public comment portion to satirically mock perceived liberal causes.Disney has not announced any plans to open pediatric transgender clinics for children.Disney, which has been publicly supportive of LGBTQ+ employees and guests, has not announced any advocacy of or plans for a themed transgender clinic for children in press releases or in news reports.
No, Biden didn’t sniff a child in the viral video as  It was altered and there  are no sniffing sounds in the video, which is 41 seconds long. And the full video makes clear that the person Biden is talking to is a baby carried by a mother. The rest of the footage shows Biden smiling to take a photo before the woman tells him she was recording and they laugh. He then poses for a photo with the crowd.In the comments, the woman wrote that Biden was pretending to say something to the baby and that the people spreading the manipulated version "don’t have better things to do." 
No, Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is not under investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. The claim was based on a response from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to a political advocacy group seeking information about the agency’s past or current investigations into Trudeau and other Canadian politicians related to a corruption and bribery scandal. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police initially provided information that was outdated. The agency later clarified it is not investigating Trudeau or any other politician for obstruction of justice.
 The Pentagon did not report $2.3 trillion missing Sept. 10, 2001 before 9/11.  Accounting entries totaling that amount that lacked adequate audit trails were detailed in government records, news reports and an official’s testimonies long before 9/11. Another audit report dated Aug. 18, 2000, said, "As a result of processing $7.6 trillion of department-level accounting entries, of which $2.3 trillion could not be supported or were made to invalid general ledger accounts, the DoD Agency-Wide financial statements for FY 1999 were subject to a high risk of material misstatement."
 McCarthy did not initiate those proceedings for Biden regime. A White House spokesperson condemned McCarthy’s threat. Johnson edited his post to say that McCarthy "threatens" impeachment, not "announces. " His spokesperson told PolitiFact the wording was changed to clarify what McCarthy said. But the Facebook user who reshared the post did not make any corrections. That post’s claim that McCarthy had announced an impeachment proceeding is wrong. We rate the claim False.
Video doesn't show Donald Trump 'made a new deal' with Vladimir Putin that will save America.Two days before this Next News Network clip was posted in 2016, Putin made his first phone call to then-President-elect Trump. Reports said Putin congratulated Trump, and the two men discussed issues including the threats and challenges facing the U.S. and Russia, national economies and their countries’ historical ties.  The Kremlin said the men discussed developing the relationship between the two countries "on the principles of equality, mutual respect and respective non-involvement in the other party's domestic affairs."
NASA did not fake footage from the International Space Station.This is one in a series of false claims about the existence in space of the International Space Station, which has been crewed since its launch in 2000. We rated a claim that there are no humans on the International Space Station False. We also rated False a statement that the station is only a television studio on Earth. False, too, was a claim that video of a NASA astronaut on the space station was recorded in front of a green screen. The faked footage claim gets the same rating: False.



Tucker Carlson video about  advertising  Affordable Care Act subsidies was altered and fake. The original video, which Carlson tweeted April 26, came two days after his abrupt firing from Fox News. He mentioned neither the Affordable Care Act nor a $7,000 subsidy.  The Affordable Care Act provides subsidies to lower premiums and out-of-pocket costs for some eligible Americans buying health insurance on the health insurance Marketplace. But there’s no $7,000 cash grab that’s ending soon via a link on Facebook. We rate claims that this video is authentic False. 
Accounting error on military support does not mean US sent Ukraine $6.2 billion by mistake.The Pentagon did not say it sent Ukraine $6.2 billion by mistake.  It said it made an accounting error, overvaluing U.S. weapons and other military support sent to Ukraine by $6.2 billion.The error has the effect of allowing for $6.2 billion more in military aid to be given to Ukraine.That doesn't mean, as a Facebook user claimed, that the Pentagon sent $6.2 billion in cash to Ukraine by mistake. Military officials counted the replacement cost of the weapons and equipment instead of the "net book value," Pentagon spokesperson Sabrina Singh said at a June 20 press briefing.
No New evidence of fraud in Biden-Trump election was found  the clam is from a 2020 video. The footage in the claim is from Next News Network, and it’s the latest example of posts we have debunked that misleadingly share older videos from that network as current events. Next News Network is a site the Chicago Tribune reported promotes conspiracies and it was recently demonetized by YouTube. The footage is from a December 2020 report about Powell, who joined in unsuccessful legal efforts to overturn Joe Biden’s defeat of Trump in the November 2020 presidential election.
There is no evidence found about a billboard in New York City shows “Glory to Urine” as  Check Your Fact did not find any credible news outlets reporting on the alleged billboard. Instead, multiple outlets, including fact-checking website Snopes, reported that the billboard was a viral fake.A Fox News spokesperson told Check Your Fact in an email that “FOX News Digital did not publish this video.”Markian Kuzmowycz, who works in digital analysis for Microsoft, tweeted out a picture of where the alleged billboard was located and pointed out issues with the original X video. Check Your Fact could not find the original footage. This article will be updated if an original source is found.
There is no evidence found about a billboard in New York City that shows “Glory to Urine” as  Check Your Fact did not find any credible news outlets reporting on the alleged billboard. Instead, multiple outlets, including fact-checking website Snopes, reported that the billboard was a viral fake.A Fox News spokesperson told Check Your Fact in an email that “FOX News Digital did not publish this video.”Markian Kuzmowycz, who works in digital analysis for Microsoft, tweeted out a picture of where the alleged billboard was located and pointed out issues with the original X video. Check Your Fact could not find the original footage. This article will be updated if an original source is found.
Viral Video Falsely Claims To Show Muslim Refugees Terrorizing New York , The claim is false, however.The original video, published via Instagram, shows chaos that ensued after Cenat hosted a giveaway in Union Square on Aug. 4. The same video that was shared on X appears on the second slide of the Instagram post. A screenshot from safety alert app Citizen appears on the fourth slide and indicates Cenat’s giveaway sparked a riot.Likewise, Check Your Fact found no credible news reports indicating Muslim refugees had recently terrorized New York. 
BOOM found that the video is morphed and altered to add the anti-Zelenskyy slogan in new york , the actual video showed a woman in the hoarding.We first looked for recent visuals of the Tiffany & Co. store in New York. The address of the store is the same as mentioned in the viral claims, which is 5th avenue. In the viral video, we can see that the store is under construction.However, in this recent YouTube video uploaded by a user 'Albeli Ritu' on July 13, 2023, we can see that the store is fully constructed. The video titled 'New York Ka 5th avenue | World’s Most Expensive Shopping street | Albeli Ritu' shows the Tiffany store at the 4:21 mark.
The video shown in the post dates back to June 2023 and likely shows people in the process of being deported in Libya not Africans To Invade Europe And America.Italy received an influx of 10,000 migrants to the island of Lampedusa last week resulting in Italy passing policies to allow migrants to be held longer,  Al Jazeera reported. Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni has been committed to solving the migrant crisis as many flee to the country for “economic reasons.” There were reports at the time that indicated a massive deportation effort that was underway in Libya. Reuters reported that thousands of Egyptians were deported back to Egypt from eastern Libya.
Texas House Bill 63 (H.B. 63), which took effect on Sept. 1, requires individuals reporting child abuse to provide their name, address, and phone number. There is no new law ending anonymous child abuse reporting nationwide.Texas H.B. 63 was approved back in May 2023 as part of an effort to deter false child abuse reporting, according to the Texas Tribune. When the state allowed for anonymous child abuse reporting, many parents and even Republican Texas House candidate Bo French were allegedly victims of false child abuse reporting schemes, The Texan reported.The claim is false. Check Your Fact conducted a keyword search via LegiScan and did not find any results for a new law that purportedly ends anonymous child abuse reporting nationwide. 
The document shown in the video is not recent, nor does it detail an executive order to build any “quarantine internment camps.” Americans are now permitted to request four free COVID-19 test kits in the mail after the Biden administration reimplemented the program, according to Axios. The government previously sent out 755 million free tests to households across America, but the program was suspended in May, CNN reported. An X video allegedly shows an executive order from the state of Tennessee to build “quarantine internment camps.” The video shows a computer screen with a document.
Photos Purporting To Show Michelle Obama During Her Pregnancies Are AI -Generated and are fake . A content detection scan using the website “Hive Moderation” indicates the photos have been created using artificial intelligence (AI). A media forensics and AI expert also confirmed the photos were not authentic in an email to Check Your Fact. Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz recently said Democrats could “parachute” Michelle Obama in to be their 2024 presidential nominee if incumbent President Joe Biden were to drop out of the race, according to The Hill. Cruz made the comments on his podcast, “Verdict with Ted Cruz,” the outlet reported.
Trump is prevented from purchasing firearms due to federal law. A Trump spokesperson clarified to media outlets that Trump did not purchase the firearm Due To His Felony Indictments.  Trump spokesman Steven Cheung claimed in a Sept. 25 tweet that Trump bought a gun in South Carolina, according to Insider. Cheung later deleted the tweet, the outlet reported. Trump is currently facing several felony charges that can result in years of prison if he is convicted, according to Politico.  Gun law experts said that Trump is unable to purchase firearms due to his felony indictments under 18 USC §922(n).
The claim is unfounded. There is no link between the Death Syndrome and Dtap Vaccine, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) told Check Your Fact in an email. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced on Friday that it is now recommending a new vaccine to help protect babies from severe respiratory syncytial virus, also known as RSV, according to CNN. The shot is to be given in the third trimester of pregnancy to protect newborns from RSV during their first six months of life, NPR reported. An Instagram post claims that SIDS is linked to the DTaP vaccine. The post shares two slides covering the claim.
The video is miscaptioned. It actually shows a news report about a tiny homes community in Hawaii constructed to help combat homelessness. Fema Did Not Build Concentration Camps In Hawaii .FEMA pledged more than $5.6 million in aid to survivors of the Maui wildfires last month, according to USA Today. Officials of the organization have faced criticism for staying at luxury hotels for about $1,000 a night while in the Maui area during recovery efforts, Daily Mail reported. The claim is baseless, however. The video was originally posted by Hawaiian news outlet KITV in 2022 and covers a tiny home community built to help combat homelessness. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about the alleged camps.
The video is from an incident that occurred at an Aug. 2023 Michigan airshow  not from The F-35 Crash. Audio has been released of the 911 call that took place after the pilot ejected from his fighter jet on Sept. 17 in which a man claims an ejected pilot landed at his home,  ABC News reported. The pilot then spoke to the operator and requested rescue for the crash. The Twitter post purports to show footage of the ejection just before part of the jet explodes. The alleged video was taken by a civilian on a boat who also comments on the event.
The description about hydroxychloroquine appears to be from the brand, not the Mayo Clinic to treat COVID-19.. The Mayo Clinic website does state that the medicine “may also be used to treat coronavirus (COVID-19) in certain hospitalized patients.” For example, the page said in September 2020 that the medicine could be used to treat COVID-19 in “certain hospitalized patients.” This is repeated in an archived screenshot from March 2021 and August 2022.
There is no evidence supporting the claim that   Hillary Clinton On Lethal Injection Medical Table . Moreover, Clinton has not been executed. Clinton received the very first Leadership Award from the Westchester Parks Foundation this week, according to Lohud.com. Clinton was recognized for her work in environmental and children’s rights, the outlet reported. The Facebook video purports to show a woman resembling Clinton lying on a lethal injection medical table. The video also includes a photo of Clinton with a list of her alleged crimes, including treason and seditious conspiracy, among others.
The photo is digitally fabricated. A Booker spokesperson confirmed that the image is not genuine in an email to Check Your Fact about Wearing Pink Short Shorts . New Jersey Sen. Robert Menendez and his wife have been indicted for accepting bribery in the form of gold bars and envelopes of cash from New Jersey businessmen, according to BBC. A 39-page indictment alleges that Menendez accepted the bribes to protect three businessmen, CBS News reported. An X post purports Booker wore a very feminine outfit. The photo allegedly shows Booker posing while wearing all pink. The picture is not genuine, however. The image was originally posted by an X account that identifies itself as satirical in its bio.
Viral X Video Does Not Authentically Show Mom Removing Lgbtq+ Pride Flag From Classroom. The video is a skit from comedian Jibrizy. The video does not authentically show a mom removing an LGBTQ+ pride flag from a classroom. School districts in Temecula and Sunol, California have banned the display of LGBTQ+ pride flags, according to The Hill. The move has prompted “widespread criticism,” the outlet reported. The video does not authentically show a mom removing an LGBTQ+ pride flag from a classroom, however. The video originally stems from Facebook, where it was posted on comedian Jibrizy’s verified page.
The video shows flooding in Saudi Arabia in 2016, not the recent flooding in Libya. Protestors gathered in Derna, Libya, to demand accountability from local authorities following massive flooding that recently tore through the country, according to Reuters. In addition, protestors also allegedly set the home of Abdulmenam al-Ghaith, Derna’s mayor when the flood occurred, on fire, the outlet reported. The video is not linked to the recent flooding in Libya, however. The original video was shared to YouTube in 2016. A translation of the video’s title indicates it shows flooding at the Wadi Al-Farsha.
There is no evidence that Russian naval units were destroyed by Ukrainian HIMARs.There is no evidence, however, that 46 Russian naval units or warships had been destroyed by Ukrainian HIMARS. If there was, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Ukrainian Defense Ministry has only claimed to have destroyed 20 Russian naval vessels since the war started in February 2022. Ukraine did hit a Russian naval base with a missile strike, heavily damaging two Russian naval vessels, including a Kilo-class submarine, according to Business Insider. Photos published Sept. 18 showed a heavily damaged Kilo-class submarine.
There are no credible news reports confirming WEF published such an agenda.An X post claims the WEF predicted a second pandemic would take place in September 2023. The post shares the alleged timeline with the WEF logo on the top right. “Stellar announced in 5 days the world will change,” the caption reads in part. “Now the World Economic Forum also announced in 5 days a new pandemic will arise.”This claim is baseless, however. There are no results on the WEF website detailing the purported agenda. The World Economic Forum did publish an article speculating on how the next pandemic can be handled better, but there is no publication on  prediction  of when a second pandemic would arise .
Cash App recently faced outages, but the has not gone bankrupt.Cash App and Square, both subsidiaries of parent company Block, experienced outages last week that were said to potentially cause “slight delays” in money transfers, according to CBS News. Square made a statement reassuring its users that the outage stemmed from a problem with its Domain Name System (DNS) and was not a result of a cybersecurity attack, USA Today reported.
There was no missile Missile Hitting Pentagon On 9/11. Video released in 2006 shows American Airlines Flight 77 hitting the Pentagon. The U.S. government commemorated the 22nd anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, which killed 2,977 people, according to The Associated Press. Social media users, though, have been spreading claims that it was a missile that hit the Pentagon. “Well, newly released footage of a camera overlooking the Pentagon appears to show none other than a missile hitting the Pentagon,” the video’s caption reads in part.
There  is No Evidence That Joe Biden Was Involved In His Son’s Business Affairs.Circumstantial evidence  in the form of witness statements and other reports suggest that the president may have been aware of his son’s activity. He met and dined with Hunter’s business partners and clients, though witnesses said nothing business-related was discussed. There is also an unclassified FBI document detailing unverified allegations that the two accepted bribes from a Ukrainian businessman.
There is no evidence that the attack was launched from Estonia or Latvia. Both countries denied the claim.At least four Russian transport aircraft were damaged or destroyed by a drone attack on Russia’s Pskov airbase on Aug.29, according to The Drive. The attack came as drones hit other parts of Russia, such as Bryansk, BBC News reported.  There is, however, no evidence that the attack came from either country. A Ukrainian government official told BBC News that Ukraine was behind the attack. Kyrylo Budanov, Ukraine’s intelligence chief, told The Drive that the attack originated from inside Russia.
While the video shows an Israeli officer kicking and beating  a Palestinian woman, the full video shows she allegedly attempted to stab him right before so it's misleading. Saudi Arabia and Israel are considering a deal to normalize diplomatic ties, with Palestinian leadership looking for concessions from both sides, according to The New York Times. This video, however, is edited to remove important context. The full video, published by Times of Israel reporter Emanuel Fabian on X, shows the woman allegedly trying to stab the Israeli officer. The video shows the woman making a stabbing motion, though Check Your Fact could not independently verify if the object was a knife or other bladed object.
X Video Falsely Claims Someone Tested Positive For Ebola At The Burning Man Music Festival which is not true.A spokesperson for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) denied the claim in an email to Check Your Fact. Burning Man attendees are beginning to exit the festival grounds following a Monday lift on a driving ban, according to CNN. Attendees had been trapped in the Nevada desert due to heavy rain and mud, the outlet reported.The claim is false, according to a Sept. 3 statement posted to the music festival’s official website. Although the statement does not explicitly call out Ebola, it notes rumors of “transmissible illnesses” spreading at the festival are “unfounded and untrue.” Likewise, the music festival did not mention any instances of positive cases of Ebola on its social media accounts.
 No, Tom Hanks Is Not Playing Osama Bin Laden In A New Netflix Productio and this image is digitally fabricated. The Instagram user self-identifies as an artist and has created similar images. A former Navy SEAL claiming to have killed bin Laden was arrested in Texas last week for a Class A misdemeanor charge of assault causing bodily injury and a Class C misdemeanor charge of public intoxication, according to New York Post. He was released the same day from a jail in Frisco on a $3,500 bond, The Independent reported. The Instagram post claims Tom Hanks will be portraying Osama bin Laden in am upcoming Netflix production. The post shared an alleged poster for the production that features Hanks with a bread and headpiece.
The video shows a waterspout that struck Clearwater Beach, Florida, in June 2023, according to reports from WFTS-Tampa and the Daily Mail, respectively not  Predates Hurricane Idalia. The claim is misleading, however. Check Your Fact performed a reverse image search using a screenshot captured from the video, which led us to reports from WFTS-Tampa and the Daily Mail covering a waterspout that struck Clearwater Beach, Florida in June 2023. Two tourists experienced minor injuries after being hit with flying debris as a result of the cyclone, according to the Daily Mail. Dr. Mike Tarjoman, who appears to have captured the video of the event used in the WFTS-Tampa report, said it was “very unexpected” and “very sudden.”
A spokesperson for the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Department denied the claim’s  about the released of Ryan Palmeter validity in an email to Check Your Fact and said it's not true. Palmeter allegedly shot and killed three Black people at the Dollar General in Jacksonville, Florida on Aug. 26, before turning the gun on himself, according to Reuters. In manifestos authored by Palmeter, he detailed his hatred for Black people, the outlet reported. The claim is false, however. The Jacksonville Sheriff’s Department has neither issued a statement via its website nor its verified social media accounts indicating it’d released the manifesto. 
The video shows a plane that was shot down in June 2023 during the Wagner mutiny not Prigozhin’s Plane Crashing. This claim, however, is false. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the video has been circulating since June 2023. The video allegedly shows a Russian transport aircraft being shot down by Wagner during its short-lived mutiny.The aircraft is part of Oryx’s list of visually confirmed losses of the Wagner mutiny. Check Your Fact found in an earlier fact-check that at least 13 Russian military personnel died during the Wagner mutiny.
No, Gavin Newsom Did Not Say He Would Pass A Bill To Remove Trump’s Name From Ballots.A post shared on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, claims Fox News reported California Gov. Gavin Newsom asked California’s State Assembly to remove former President Donald Trump’s name from presidential ballots.  Newsom did not say this, a spokesperson for the governor told Check Your Fact in an email.An X post claims Newsom has asked California’s State Assembly to remove Trump’s name from future presidential ballots. The post shares an image of Newsom and the California State Assembly seal.
The meat is grown from chicken cells and Good Meat calls it “cultivated chicken,” CBS News reported.The claim is baseless, however ,  Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about lab-grown chicken being made from human cells.  “This claim is false,” an FDA spokesperson told Check Your Fact in an email. “Human food made with cultured animal cells must meet the same stringent requirements, including safety requirements, as all other food under the Federal Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act requirements and the FDA’s regulations, as applicable.  ” The spokesperson directed Check Your Fact to the Human Food Made with Cultured Animal Cells Inventory which shows details for the types of chicken cells used in the meat.
Two weeks after the Lahaina wildfire, 115 people have been confirmed dead and over 1,000 people are missing, according to Hawaii News Now. Authorities in Hawaii asked the family of those missing to come forward and provide DNA samples to help identify remains discovered in the ashes, AP News reported. The viral footage was actually captured in Fort Lauderdale Beach, Florida  not from Maui prior to the recent wildfires. 
There is no evidence for the claim that users able to follow 200 people as There have been no credible news reports or announcements from Musk about this alleged change. A spokesperson for Dextero confirmed they did not make this tweet via email to Check Your Fact. Musk announced in a post on Monday that he plans to remove the headline and text on news article links on X, including only the lead image, Reuters reported. An X post purports Musk is limiting the amount of accounts someone can follow to 200. The post shares a screenshot of the alleged Twitter post. The claim is baseless, however. There are no posts on Musk’s account matching the screenshot used in the post. An archived version of Musk’s account from that day also shows no evidence of the post being made.
No, 80,000 Azov Troops Are Not Besieging The Russians. The Azov Brigade, Which Is Part Of The National Guard Of Ukraine, Is Fighting In Luhansk, Not Zaporizhia. The Azov Brigade, a Ukrainian National Guard unit that has ties to the far-right, has been reconstituted as a fighting unit after fighting during the Siege of Mariupol, according to Meduza. The 3rd Separate Assault Brigade, which was formed by Azov veterans, is currently fighting in the Donetsk region, not the south, according to Ukrainska Pravda. Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy recently visited them and other units on the frontlines, the outlet reported.
A viral image shared on X, the social media platform previously known as Twitter, purports to show a recent mugshot of former President Donald Trump which is fake and AI generated.Trump is planning to surrender himself to the Fulton County jail Aug. 23 following a criminal indictment regarding his alleged efforts to overturn the 2020 presidential election results in the state, according to CNN. The bond for his release is expected to be $200,000, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. The claim is false, however. A content detection scan using the website “Hive Moderation” reveals the image is AI-generated. The scan also reveals the image was likely created using the program Midjourney.
The claim is false. There is no credible news report that suggests this video was taken of Odesa. The video is of a blast in Beirut a video on YouTube from 2020 shows the same building collapsing.  Another post on Twitter from 2020 shows another one of the clips. The caption claims the video was taken in Beirut.Odesa has been the target of Russian missile strikes. The New York Times reported that Russia pulled out of an agreement with Ukraine that allowed grain to be transported through the black Sea from the port in Odesa. CNN shared a genuine video of a Russian missile strikes that hit Odesa. 
No, Wagner Group Did Not Assassinate The Russian Defense Minister.Wagner has been listed as an “educational organization” in Belarus, according to BBC News. Many Wagner mercenaries have relocated to Belarus since Prigozhin’s short-lived mutiny in June and are helping to train Belarusian troops, the outlet reported. he Institute for the Study of War (ISW), a think tank that publishes campaign assessments of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, has not reported on Wagner assassinating Shoigu. Shoigu recently spoke at a security conference in Moscow, where he derided Western weapons and claimed that Ukraine is depleted, according to Reuters. Reuters reported that the appearance was “rare.” 
The video dates back to 2022 and is of a Chinese rocket reentry over India not Perseid meteor shower . The Times of India reported on the debris found after the incident and confirmed that it was the Chinese rocket. This is not the first time misinformation has been shared online. Check Your Fact debunked a claim that 13 nations agreed to abolish farming as part of a new international agreement.


No, Russia Did Not Send Troops To Taiwan.China’s military has been increasing its pressure on Taiwan this year, according to The New York Times. It has been sending greater amounts of drones, aircraft and ships around Taiwan’s territorial waters and airspace, the outlet reported.There is no evidence for this claim. If Russia had sent troops to Taiwan for “revenge,” media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The foreign ministries of the three countries have not confirmed that Russia has sent troops to Taiwan.The Institute for the Study of War, a non-partisan think tank, reports on China and Taiwan in a weekly update. In its Aug. 10 update, it didn’t state that Russia had sent troops to Ukraine. The update concerns recent counter-espionage efforts, among other events.
Kemp cannot pardon Trump, according to Georgia law and experts. Trump and several others were recently indicted by Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis on attempts to overturn the 2020 presidential election, according to The Associated Press. Since his indictment, commentators have criticized Kemp for not looking to pardon Trump. The pardon power is held by the Board of Pardons and Paroles, not the governor, according to the Georgia Justice Project. The Board of Pardons and Paroles website states that each member is appointed by Georgia’s governor for seven year terms.
There is no evidence that 750,000 troops broke through the current frontlines. Ukraine has made marginal gains in August. Ukraine has ordered the evacuation of several towns and villages in northeast Kharkiv region, according to The Guardian. This comes as the Ukrainians are pressing on the Bakhmut and southern fronts while the Russians are continuing an offensive in northeastern Ukraine, the outlet reported. If they had, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. A wider internet search also did not yield any results for credible sources reporting on the alleged breakthrough.
The image shows a Wagner Group mercenary in the Central African Republic.  However, the image does not show a Niger soldier. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the image actually shows a Central African Republic soldier in March 2022. The image was shared on news outlets such as Defense One, identifying the soldier as from the Central African Republic.  Other outlets, such as The Washington Post and The Sunday Times, made the same identification. Fact-checking website Misbar was the first outlet to debunk this image.
Hunter Biden admitted to accepting funds from China in July 2023. A former business associate has also testified some of the deals took place while Joe Biden was vice president.In a recent interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity, McCarthy mentioned that Biden denied that his son was accepting money from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). McCarthy stated that this was not true saying, “When President Biden was running for office, he told the American public that he never talked about business he said that his family never a dollar from China, which we now prove is not true.”
Viral Post Falsely Claims German Broadcast Station Showed Weather Map On Fire.The video is digitally altered. The original video of the broadcast, which has been uploaded to YouTube, does not show the weather map on fire. Germany is just one of the countries that has been impacted by extreme heat this summer, according to Forbes. The German government launched a campaign against heat wave deaths back in June 2023, The Associated Press reported. “The #ClimateScam is reaching new heights of propaganda as weather stations in Germany portray weather maps actually on fire,” the X video, viewed over 400,000 times, purports. In addition to the weather map being on fire, sirens can be heard in the video clip.
Ukraine still has functioning Leopard 2 tanks.However, there is no evidence that all of Ukraine’s Leopard tanks were destroyed. If all of Ukraine’s Leopards had been destroyed, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. A wider internet search did not yield any results either. The Wall Street Journal reported that Ukraine switched tactics and is now preserving Leopard tanks and other Western-provided armored vehicles for a breakthrough. Oryx, a military analysis website that tracks visually confirmed equipment losses in the Russian-Ukrainian war, has documented 14 destroyed or damaged Leopard 2 tanks. 
The Ukrainian Defense Ministry denied it had made such a request of Sending 30,000 Military Age Men To Fight Russia. However, there is no evidence for this claim. If Ukraine had asked Canada to send 30,000 men to help fight the Russian invasion of Ukraine, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. There is nothing related to this alleged request on Ukraine’s Embassy to Canada’s website or the Ukrainian Defense Ministry’s website.A spokesperson for the Ukrainian embassy in Canada said the claim was false.
 Image Of Mike Pence Carrying Rainbow Flag Is Ai-Generated and fake. A content detection scan using the website “Hive Moderation” reveals the image has been created with artificial intelligence (AI).Pence qualified for the first Republican debate of the 2024 campaign cycle, which is set for Aug. 23 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, according to CNBC. Pence joins former President Donald Trump, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and others as candidates who qualified for the first debate, ABC News reported.
The video shows the headquarters of the Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism, not the French Embassy, being attacked in Niger . Leaders of the recent coup in Niger have closed the country’s airspace following what they claimed was the threat of a potential attack, according to BBC News. The coup leaders ignored a deadline to reinstate President Mohamed Bazoum or face military intervention, Reuters reported. The claim that the video shows the French Embassy in Niger being attacked is false, however. At the 34-second mark of the video, a sign reading “Bienvenue” and a photo of a lion are visible on the building’s exterior. This signage matches a photo of the party’s headquarters that was published to Getty Images in December 2020.
Greta Thunberg was not advocating for banks to “save the world.” , as the viral claims are false. Thunberg recently pulled out of an appearance at the Edinburgh International Book festival, BBC reported. The event was sponsored by the company Baillie Gifford and Thunberg refused to appear at the event claiming that Baillie Gifford, “invests heavily in the fossil fuel industry.” The clip is taken out of context. Check Your Fact conducted a reverse image and found the clip stems from a conference called, ‘The Right to a Future’ held by The Intercept. The interviewer asks Greta about her rebuttal to governments saying fighting climate change is “too expensive."
There are several reliable sources that confirm the number of deaths due to fentanyl overdoses is around 70,000. Check Your Fact (CYF) received confirmation of the estimate from a spokesperson from the National Institutes of Health (NIH)  with a report published on their website. The report also indicated that fentanyl-related deaths were increasing significantly, approximately a 7.5-fold increase between 2015 and 2021. 
There is no evidence Pope Francis made the purported remark that Alcoholics Should Be Euthanized To ‘Fight Climate Change’. The claim is false and stems from a July 28 article published by the website “The People’s Voice.” A “Liability Disclaimer” included on the site’s “Terms of Use” page indicates it “makes no representations about the suitability, reliability, availability, timeliness, and accuracy of the information, software, products, services and related graphics contained on the site for any purpose.”The site, which has previously been known as “NewsPunch” and “YourNewsWire,” is described as “one of the most well-known purveyors of fake news online,” according to a 2019 article from Mashable. 
The claim is inaccurate. There is no credible news report that suggests Obama removed these pedophiles. The headline was from a website called The People’s Voice. The article cites a report from The Washington Post suggesting the FBI purged thousands of names from the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which is used by gun stores to confirm that they can legally sell a firearm to a particular customer. The FBI updated their guidance on the definition of a Fugitive from Justice. The Washington Post reported that these fugitives were all pedophiles. 
There is no credible news report that suggests these 19,000 Doctors  arrest have taken place. The post offers no source or evidence of any kind that supports this claim. The post makes reference to an anonymous source that made this information known. The post appears to stem from a satirical news outlet called Real Raw News. The “about section“ of the website features a disclaimer that self identifies the website as satire saying, “This website contains humor, parody, and satire.”
Epstein died by suicide on August 10, 2019, according to CBS News. The medical examiner’s officer determined the suicide occurred via hanging, also according to the outlet. Despite Epstein being placed on suicide watch and bruises being found on his neck prior to his death, conspiracy theories have swirled online that the late financier didn’t kill himself. Likewise, there are no credible news reports indicating Campbell died on the anniversary of Epstein’s death. If that was actually true, multiple media outlets would have reported it, yet none have.
If five Russian generals had died in 48 hours, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. A list maintained by Insider shows that Ukraine has killed nine Russian generals since Russia started its invasion in February 2022. One was killed in a Storm Shadow strike while he was staying in a hotel in Berdyansk, according to BBC News. Another was reportedly killed in a missile strike in Zaporizhzhia region, Reuters reported.  The video itself talks about the death of a Russian brigade commander, Denis Ivanov. Ivanov was a Russian colonel, not a general, and he was killed in Luhansk oblast, according to Newsweek.
The photo was digitally edited. The screenshot resembles a BBC article, but the alleged article cannot be found through a search of the publication’s website. Likewise, Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about the Barbie movie being banned in Serbia After It Included A Greater Albania Map.  The movie actually was banned in Vietnam for a map showing a controversial depiction of the South China Sea, according to a YouTube video from NowThis News, a popular outlet for pop culture and politics. The map seen in this video does not show Albania. Instead, the real scene shows a colorful, inaccurate world map that appears to have been drawn by a child. 
The Russian fuel truck was destroyed in February 2022 and in a different part of the country not by Ukrainian partisans.Ukraine is currently undergoing a “counter-battery” fight on the left bank of the Dnipro River, according to Ukrinform. Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy recently said that Ukraine’s offensive was delayed due to a lack of munitions and equipment, Politico reported. This image, however, is old. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the image shows a fuel truck destroyed in February 2022. The image was taken in the Chernihiv oblast, according to WarSpotting, a website that tracks Russian losses.
The viral image is digitally fabricated, however. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about the alleged promotion of barbie movie by oe Biden And Barack Obama  . The image was most likely created with AI. In the photo, both Biden’s and Obama’s skin looks like plastic and they are both oversaturated.   This image is digitally fabricated. There is no evidence Biden and Obama did this promotion. Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz’s wife has called for a boycott of the Barbie movie, stating that it has a lack of “family or faith” values and “disappointingly low T (testosterone) from Ken,” according to The Independent. 
Viral Post Falsely Claims Mitt Romney Has Threatened To Leave The Republican Party. The Utah Republican Senator’s spokesperson denied the claim’s validity in an email to Check Your Fact. Although he hasn’t publicly announced if he’s running for another Senate term in 2024, Romney reported more than $1 million in campaign contributions from April to June, according to the Salt Lake Tribune. Back in December 2022, Romney said he was convinced he’d win reelection if he ran, The Hill reported.The claim is false. Romney’s 2023 FEC Statement of Candidacy form, filed on April 11, lists his party as Republican. 
The video shows Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman being hit during a parade, not  former Vice President MikePence. This video, however, does not show Pence. Through a keyword and reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the video shows Blakeman, not Pence. Blakeman shared the video on Twitter and Facebook. The video was taken at the Stewart Manor annual July 4 parade, according to CBS New York. The parade turned into a large water balloon fight, the outlet reported.
There is no credible news report that suggests the post  Donald Trump callec DeSantis a virgin  is authentic as there is no such post Trump’s Truth Social account. No such statement has been made by his spokesperson Liz Harrington’s verified Twitteraccount. Furthermore, there is no comments of this sort on Trump’s.The Twitter post purports purports Trump called DeSantis a “virgin” while also making a using his last name as a pun. The post shared a screenshot of the alleged Truth Social post.
Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about Gates being arrested By Federal Marshals. Likewise, there are no results on The Washington Post website showing articles about Gates’ alleged arrest.  The image appears to be edited from the 8:13 timestamp of a YouTube video showing a recreation of someone receiving a lethal injection. It shows a different man strapped to the gurney, not Gates. “A painstaking reconstruction of a real-time execution by lethal injection that highlights some of the very specific issues relating to the USA’s preferred execution method,” the caption reads.
There were an estimated 110,000 overdose deaths in 2022, according to preliminary data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Burgum, who is running for the Republican presidential nomination, discussed China, abortion and other subjects during a July 9 interview with NBC News’s Chuck Todd. During the interview, he claimed that 110,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2022. This claim appears to be true. The CDC released preliminary data in May 2023 stating that 109,680 people were estimated to have died from drug overdoses in 2022.
No, The World Economic Forum  Has Not Declared Humans Must Eat Feces And Drink Urine To Fight Climate Change.The WEF held its first in-person event in Tianjin, China, since the global COVID-19 pandemic in late June, according to Insider. Around 1,500 participants gathered in Tianjin for the WEF’s “Summer Davos” event, the Global Times reported.The site, which has previously been known as “NewsPunch” and “YourNewsWire,” is described as “one of the most well-known purveyors of fake news online,” according to a 2019 article from Mashable. The article references multiple initiatives that use recycled wastewater, including beer made from urine, to combat water shortages, to bolster the claim.
The viral  video about French Police Hitting A Female Protester happened in Italy, not France and is not related to any French protests. Violent riots have rocked France following the police shooting of a 17-year-old teenager during a traffic stop, according to Bloomberg. France Assurers said in a July 11 statement that the riots have caused at least $715 million in damage, the outlet reported. This video, however, is not related to the French riots. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the video is from Italy in May 2023 and is about a Brazilian transgender woman being beaten by police in Milan, according to Il Milano.
According to the state’s official election results, Trump lost Nevada in both 2016 and 2020. Trump’s attorneys have asked for his classified documents case to be delayed until after the 2024 presidential election, according to Politico. The former Republican President’s attorneys said there is “no reason to have any expedited trial” in a Jul. 10 court filing, CNN reported.Nevada’s 2016 election results indicate former Secretary of State and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton earned 47.92% of the vote, while Trump earned 45.50% of the vote. The results are available via the Nevada Secretary of State’s Office, with 100% of the state’s precincts reported.
There is no evidence that German magazine cover  about ukrainian exists.Ukraine’s offensive has been progressing slower than expected, with Ukrainian troops struggling to breach Russian fortifications and defensive lines, according to The Wall Street Journal. The Facebook image claims to show a cover from the German magazine Handelsblatt. The alleged cover reads, “This is not a counteroffensive- it’s a bloody crash test.” Check Your Fact reviewed the magazine’s website and did not find any covers matching the one in the Facebook image. A search of the magazine’s Facebook and Twitter accounts also did not yield any results.
The photo was digitally fabricated. No such cover can be found on National Geographic’s website or in any credible news reports  about white people the threat to  earth's population. The alleged Dec. 2020 cover features a family with two children posing in the snow together. The image is digitally fabricated, however. The cover cannot be found through a search of the National Geographic website. Likewise, there are no credible news reports about such a cover being published. Check Your Fact has reached out to National Geographic for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
No such tweet can be found on Zuckerberg’s Twitter account or in any credible news reports claims that Elon Musk   having an affair with billionaire Sergey Brin’s wife however it is false. Meta’s new app, Threads, has seen a surge of growth recently, surpassing over 100 million users and surprising even Zuckerberg, according to Vox. During the surge of the Twitter rival app’s popularity, Musk proposed a “literal d*ck measuring contest” with Zuckerberg, Forbes reported. The Twitter post alleges Zuckerberg called out Elon Musk on Twitter. The post shares a photo of an alleged tweet were Zuckerberg accuses Musk of having an affair. The photo is digitally fabricated, however. There are no credible news reports about this interaction occurring. 
More people moved out of New York and California than Florida.Florida had positive net migration, while more people moved out of New York and California than moved in. Business Insider issued a correction.  The article claims 674,000 people moved out of Florida and cites the American Community Survey of 2021, which was released by the U.S. Census Bureau. The article was also shared to Facebook pages owned by Insider, such as Insider News. This claim, however, is false. Check Your Fact reviewed the data from survey, which showed that 674,740 people moved into Florida, while 469,577 moved out. Florida had a positive net migration of 205,000 people.
The police have not surrendered to rioters.The French Government has prohibited the sale of fireworks for the upcoming French celebration of Bastille Day, The BBC reported. This ban comes after the recent riots that occurred across French that were sparked when police shot a 17-year old during a traffic stop.The TikTok post alleges that this video was taken recently of French police officers laying down their handcuffs to surrender to the protests. Many of the alleged police in the video can be seen wearing tactical gear while others are wearing street clothes. The claim is inaccurate. There is no credible news report that suggests this video was taken recently. This video dates back to 2020 when police marched in the Paris suburb of Bobigny in response to new government policies regarding police tactics. 
Viral Image Does Not Show Supermarket Ransacked In France Amid 2023 Riots. The image stems from a 2016 article highlighting a Somalian supermarket that had been ransacked. French courts are working overtime to process the more than 3,600 people who have been arrested in connection with recent riots in the country, according to The Associated Press. Riots ensued in France following the death of Nahel Merzouk, a 17-year-old of North African descent who was killed in a fatal police shooting, Reuters reported. Likewise, Check Your Fact did not find the purported photo shared via the Twitter post included in any credible news reports about the recent riots in France. The photo has neither been referenced on the Police Nationale/French Police’s website nor its verified social media accounts.
Lions Are  not Roaming on the Streets Of Paris as, the video is miscaptioned and is not recent. It video dates back to at least Oct. 21, 2020, when it was posted on Facebook and Instagram. It was also posted to YouTube in 2021. Furthermore, it was not taken in France. The footage resembles that of a YouTube video which identifies the location as Knowsley Safari Park, located in Preston, England
Video Showing B-2 Bomber Is From Air Show not flying over Miami, Florida.There is no evidence it was for anything else.This claim is highly misleading. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the video is from the Hyundai Air and Sea Show. A spokesperson for the event confirmed to Reuters that the video is from the event. Check Your Fact could not find any evidence that missile defense systems are moving to the west coast.
China’s navy is the largest in the world with 340 ships. The U.S. navy has 296 ships.“The Chinese navy is especially concerning. Less than ten years ago, it was about the same size as ours. Today it has the largest fleet in the world, with 340 ships, and plans to hit 400 in the next two years. We don’t have plans to hit 350 ships in the next two decades,” Haley said.Haley’s statement is accurate.Haley campaign spokesperson Ken Farnaso pointed Check Your Fact to a 2022 CNN article that described China’s navy as the “world’s largest” and a 2022 Pentagon report that shows the Chinese fleet reached 340 ships with plans to get to the 400 number by 2025. A 2020 Pentagon report stated that China’s navy was the largest in the world.
Photo Of Donald Trump on the golf course is Digitally Altered as  The original image shows professional golfer John Daly. Although the image recently circulated on social media, it was previously posted on Twitter by a Trump parody account in April 2017. “Today’s my 14th day of golf since inauguration. My muscles are very sore, so I’ll take a few days off from work this week. #SundayFunday,” the post’s caption read. When the post previously circulated in 2017, many social media users mistook it for authentic following a story published by The New Yorker, which suggested the then-President had a negative view of exercise.
There is no evidence that NASA has faked footage  from the International Space Station (ISS).This claim lacks evidence. 269 people have visited the ISS since 2000, according to NASA’s website. NASA spokesperson Sandra Jones told The Associated Press (AP) that “ no time have props, green screen, wires or simulated underwater facilities substituted for actual real-time operation on the space station.” Experts interviewed by the AP also stated that the videos were not faked or green screened.
There is no evidence of a mass surrender of 27,000 Russian troops.The Facebook video claims 27,000 Russian troops had abandoned their positions in Ukraine and surrendered. The Facebook video’s caption reads, “Putin’s Last Day: 27.000 Russian soldiers abandoned their trenches and surrender!” The Institute for the Study of War, a non-partisan think tank, publishes daily assessments of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Check Your Fact reviewed the June 20 through June 25 assessments. This review also did not yield any evidence for the mass surrender of 27,000 Russian troops.
No,  organization  Moms For Liberty Did Not Tweet Racist Comment. A New York City drag queen pride parade is making headlines after they chanted during the march “we’re here, we’re queer, we’re coming for your children,” Fox News reported. Recently at Dodger Stadium there were protests against the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence that held a pride event before the game, according to Los Angeles Times. The Twitter post shares an alleged tweet from the conservative organization Moms for Liberty. The post shares the alleged quote in a screenshot which dates the tweet June 22. The caption is inaccurate There is no credible news report that suggests this tweet is authentic. There is no such post found on their verified Twitter account. Likewise, there is no record of this tweet on an archived version of their account.
The image was digitally altered. The same image of the ocean floor was originally posted in a 2020 BBC article and does not show the  Titan Submersible’s Gaming controller. The Titan submersible, which killed five people after imploding during a dive to the Titanic ruins, was controlled by a Logitech gamepad, Newsweek reported. Logitech stock has fallen by 3.4% and its product was inundated with negative Amazon reviews since the vessel was announced as missing last week, according to New York Post. A photo allegedly shows the Logitech controller used to steer the Titan submersible laying on the ocean floor. The image appears to faintly show the controller submerged in sand with a yellow square around it.
Budanov is alive and has given video interviews to media outlets. Budanov met with the Japanese ambassador to Ukraine June 20, with images showing him posing with the delegation, according to Ukrainska Pravda. He also appeared in multiple videos, including an interview with a Ukrainian outlet, according to Wall Street Journal chief foreign affairs correspondent Yaroslav Trofimov. BBC Verify reporter Shayan Sardarizadeh said on Twitter that the videos showing Budanov were not deepfakes.
 No, A Train Is Not Carrying Armored Vehicles In The U.S.  The video is miscaptioned and was not captured in the U.S. Instead, it was taken in Wainwright, Alberta in Canada. S spokesperson for Canada’s Department of National Defence told Check Your Fact. The Twitter post purporst a train is carrying heavily armored vehicles in the U.S. The video appears to show said train carrying countless armored vehicles as a someone films from the road. The spokesperson directed Check Your Fact to a picture of the vehicles being loaded onto the train as well as a webpage explaining the military exercise seen in the video. On the uniform of the person loading the tanks on to the train a Canadian flag is visible on his left arm.
The image in which a  Joe Biden wearing a “new costume was created using artificial intelligence (AI), a scan using AI-generated content detection website Hive Moderation, shows and is fake . The image was created using AI, a scan using AI-generated content detection website Hive Moderation, shows. The scan reveals the image is 69.6% likely AI-generated, with the program Midjourney being the most probable source of creation. Check Your Fact also reviewed the image and noticed there are seven fingers on Biden’s left hand, which is a tell-tale sign that the image is AI-generated. Furthermore, the image is not featured in any recent credible news reports about Biden.
 The image is altered. There is no credible news report that suggests this image is authentic. Check Your Fact conducted a reverse image search that revealed the image appears to stem from a recent graduation ceremony at the United State Air Force Academy that Biden attended and spoke at. The original image shows Biden being helped up after he fell during the ceremony and does not show the diaper when falling at the Air Force Academy Graduation Ceremony.
No, Trump Did Not Save Children From Sex Trafficking In Underground Tunnels In New York. The claim is inaccurate. There is no credible news report that suggests these images are of a trafficking rescue. Check Your Fact conducted a reverse image search that revealed many of these images are from COVID-19 response during the pandemic. The image of the ship dates back to Mar. 30, 2020  from AP News, when the USNS Comfort was mobilized to support New York City during COVID-19 pandemic.  Another image was taken on board USNS Mercy in April of 2020  and used in an article from DVIDS.
However, there is no evidence for this claim. If China was preparing to provide tanks for Ukraine, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense, Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelenskyy’s office have made comments confirming that China is preparing to provide tanks to Ukraine. There is no evidence China is providing any kind of weaponry to Ukraine. Chinese-made armored trucks have appeared in Chechnya, which raised questions that Chinese equipment might appear in Ukraine, The Wall Street Journal reported. Leaked Pentagon documents noted that Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service believed that China would provide weaponry to Russia, according to The Washington Post.
 A spokesperson for the Massachusetts Department of Fire Services confirmed that the claims are false in an email to Check Your Fact. The caption is not accurate, however. The church that caught fire was in Spencer, Massachusetts, and no injuries were reported, according to the Associated Press. There was no same-sex wedding going on, as the church was unoccupied, a spokesperson for the Massachusetts Department of Fire Services told Check Your Fact in an email. “Almost nothing in that tweet is accurate. The church was located in Spencer, MA, about 55 miles west of Boston,” the spokesperson said. “Moreover, this was one of at least three structure fires in Massachusetts that were caused by lightning strikes that day.” 
No, Cows In Italy Are Not Dying After Receiving The Covid-19 Vaccine.Fifty cows died from acute prussic acid poisoning by sorghum plants as a result of the drought, according to a piece from The Animal Reader.Labels could be added to meats indicating livestock have been vaccinated with inoculations that use the same technology as the COVID-19 vaccine, Cowboy State Daily reported in April 2023. The article precedes Texas S.B. 2632, which would prohibit the sale of any meat that does not indicate the livestock received an mRNA vaccine, local outlet KHOU reported.The claim is false, as the images stem from an August 2022 Bilyonaryo article blaming a drought for the cows’ deaths. The cows, housed on a farm in Sommariva del Bosco, were poisoned by sorghum plants, the article indicated.
No, Sweden Did Not Declare Sex As A Sport. An organization applied to the Swedish Sports Confederation to make sex recognized as sport in Sweden, but was rejected.Check Your Fact has reached out to the RF for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. “The Swedish Sex Federation” applied to the Swedish Sports Confederation (RF due to its initials in Swedish) to be considered a sport, but was rejected, according to a press release.
No, Marjorie Taylor Greene Did Not Include A ‘Nationwide Pornography Ban’ In The Debt Ceiling Bill.The claim appears to have originated in a May 26 Twitter post from Politics Video Channel, an entity that publishes fake articles on its corresponding website. Greene’s spokesperson denied the claim’s validity in an email to Check Your Fact.The entity, which has a corresponding website, publishes fake articles with headlines that make sensationalized claims about former President Donald Trump, Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz and other public figures.
The image is digitally fabricated. There is no record of Musk publishing such a tweet of  calling girlfriend, Canadian musician Grimes, his “little hyperpop kitty.” The Twitter image allegedly shows a tweet from when Musk was dating musician Grimes in April 2020 with affectionate terminology. The image is a response to a post that reads “what’s the worst tweet of all time” and has been viewed over seven million times. The photo is digitally fabricated, however. The tweet cannot be found through a search of Musk’s verified Twitter account. It also cannot be found in a PolitiTweet archive of Musk’s tweets from around April 2020. 
The claim is inaccurate. The video offered no source and for the data quoted in the video. There are no credible news reports that suggest this percent is accurate. Check Your Fact found no credible data that claims Americans consume 87% of the medication in the world. While the U.S. does not account for the 87% of the consumption of prescription drugs, more than half do consume at least one medication. According to Georgetown University Health Policy Institute, 66% of American adults take at least one prescription medication. Similarly, the KFF Independent source for Health policy research, polling and news found that 62% of Americans are on prescription medication.  
No, Adam Schiff Was Not Hit With A $16 Million Fine.This claim, however, is false as Schiff has not been served with a $16 million fine. If he had been served with such a fine, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Schiff has not released a statement indicating that he had been hit by a $16 million fine. The claim stems from legislation introduced by Florida Republican Rep. Anna Paulina Luna that would fine Schiff $16 million. The resolution has five co-sponsors and has not been voted on in Congress.
The video shows a fire at the Pickles Auction car yard in Perth, Australia, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and there is no evidence an electric car fire has recently occurred at a U.S. warehouse. The video shows a fire at the Pickles Auction car yard in Perth, Australia, according to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. More than 100 vehicles were “damaged in total,” police said, according to the outlet. The cause of the fire was not specified, but the outlet noted an investigation was being conducted.Likewise, electric car manufacturers such as Tesla, Volkswagen, Ford, and Kia have not released statements indicating a fire has occurred at any of their respective warehouses. 
There is no evidence that the photos of  Elon Musk embracing and kissing robots with female appearances. are genuine. The images were digitally fabricated, their creator confirmed in a direct message to Check Your Fact. The images appear to stem from an Instagram account that creates images with artificial intelligence (AI). In the comments, he confirmed that the images were made with AI program Midjourney. 
“Yes I created all those images,” the Instagram user confirmed in a direct message to Check Your Fact.  Check Your Fact has reached out to Twitter for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
No, The Atlantic Did Not Publish An Article Saying ‘White Supremacy Is Now A Multi-Racial Movement’. A spokesperson for The Atlantic confirmed in an email to Check Your Fact that the outlet published no such article. The image is digitally fabricated, however. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports for a matching article from The Atlantic or any other media outlets. The Atlantic did, however, publish an article titled “Latinos Can Be White Supremacists.” No results for the alleged article can be found on The Atlantic’s website or any of its verified social media accounts. “It is a fake image. There is no such article from The Atlantic,” a spokesperson for The Atlantic confirmed in an email to Check Your Fact.
Likewise, Check Your Fact found no credible news reports supporting the claim. The claim neither appears on Walt Disney World’s website nor its verified social media accounts. DeSantis also has not publicly addressed the purported claim.The claim stems from an article published on a satirical website. The false claim about Walt Disney World replacing the American flag with the LGBTQ+ pride flag did not just circulate on Facebook, a video iteration of the claim can also be found on TikTok and There is no evidence supporting the claim.
Furthermore, Check Your Fact found no credible news reports indicating only male migrants are trying to enter the U.S. The claim also neither appears on CBP’s website nor its verified social media accounts.Check Your Fact has contacted CBP for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. Check Your Fact also contacted U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who deferred comment to CBP. Likewise, data from CBP breaks down land encounters at the border into the following four categories: accompanied children, individuals in a family unit, single adults, and unaccompanied children. The data shows a total of 191,956 land encounters for March 2023 and a total of 211,401 land encounters for April 2023.
Check Your Fact found no credible news reports suggesting he made the comment. If Musk had actually tweeted the comment about the late financier and sex offender, the media would’ve covered it so we are considering it fake. Affiliate badges were rolled out shortly after the Apr. 1 deadline for Twitter users to subscribe to Twitter Blue and pay for their verification or forfeit their blue check mark, according to First Post. The purpose of the affiliate badges is to direct attention back to the Twitter user’s parent account, the outlet indicated.
There is no evidence of an explosion. A Pentagon spokesperson told Check Your Fact there were no incidents reported. However, there is no evidence of any such explosion. If there was an explosion, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Pentagon’s official Twitter account did not report any explosion this morning. “@PFPAOfficial and the ACFD are aware of a social media report circulating online about an explosion near the Pentagon. There is NO explosion or incident taking place at or near the Pentagon reservation, and there is no immediate danger or hazards to the public,” the department stated on Twitter.
No, Video Doesn’t Show Lindsey Graham Getting Angry At Barack Obama However, the video does not show Graham confronting Obama at all. Through a keyword search, Check Your Fact found that the video is from July 2022 and shows Graham at the America First Policy Institute (AFPI) summit. The 13-minute clip is cut from the 47-minute video. Check Your Fact reviewed the 13-minute segment and the 47-minute video. Nowhere in the video does Graham ever confront Obama or humiliate him, as the Facebook video’s caption claims. He does criticize some Obama policies, such as the Affordable Healthcare Act, but the primary discussion was about the Chips and Science Act, alongside other economic issues.
The Russians have not retreated from Bakhmut. They currently control the vast majority of the city.  However, there is no evidence that the Russians have retreated from Bakhmut. If Russia had retreated from Bakhmut, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense did not release a statement confirming that Russia had retreated from Bakhmut. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW), a non-partisan think tank, reported May 9 that Wagner Group leader Yevgeny Prigozhin claimed Ukraine controlled around 2.36 square kilometers of the city. ISW estimated May 3 that Ukraine controlled 1.89 square kilometers, while Prigozhin claimed at the time Ukraine controlled 2.7 square kilometers.
The image showing the aftermath of the alleged strike was debunked in April by Check Your Fact. Check Your Fact debunked the claim that hundreds of NATO officers have been killed in a Russian missile strike. Since that fact-check, no credible media outlet has reported that a NATO bunker was destroyed in Ukraine.
This video is not genuine. A spokesperson for Sozo Bear Films, the video production company behind the video, confirmed in an email to Check Your Fact the video is not real. The video is digitally fabricated, however. It was originally posted to TikTok by @thelukepilgrim. “Filmmakers/VFX Artists making Sci-fi short films,” the account’s bio reads. Luke Pilgrim is co-owner and director of VFX production company Sozo Bear Films, according to its website. The spokesperson also directed Check Your Fact to a YouTube video demonstrating how the animation was created.
There is no evidence that 300,000 Ukrainian soldiers have died during the conflict. Estimates vary, but the United States assessed that between 15,500 and 17,500 Ukrainian troops have died between Feb. 24, 2022 and March 1, 2023.However, there is no evidence that 300,000 Ukrainian soldiers have died. If 300,000 Ukrainian soldiers had died, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Neither the Ukrainian government nor western governments have released statements noting that 300,000 Ukrainian troops have died.
The video of Migrants was taken in Melilla, Spain, not on the United states  and Mexico border. However, through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the video originated in March 2022 and is from an entirely different country. A still from the video was shared as a headline from the Spanish news outlet La Vanguardia. The full video was also published in another article from the outlet. 2,500 migrants did attempt to cross Melilla’s border fence from the Moroccan side of the border in March 2022, according to Al Jazeera. Both migrants and police officers suffered injuries during the attempt, the outlet reported.
There is no credible news report that Biden snubbed the gifts  of  team given to him. The full video shows that Biden posed for photos holding both the football and helmet. After the photo op, a teammate then placed the ball on the stand on the table that was on stage.The White House transcript that shows that Biden was presented with all three of the gifts the team had planned to gift him.This is not the first time that a video was shared online with a false or misleading caption. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video purporting to be Josh Hawley revealed new information regarding Chinese espionage.
Ramaswamy did not receive money from George Soros, although he did win a scholarship for law school in 2011 from the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans. The late Paul Soros was George Soros' brother. Paul Soros made his fortune separately from George Soros, through Soros Associates, a provider of port planning, engineering and installation services. However, George Soros — who made his money as an investor and through his hedge funds — did handle some of Paul Soros’ investments and helped increase his fortune.


According to U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's own financial disclosures that were posted to the U.S. House website, this rumor was false. As Reuters previously reported in August 2022, Ocasio-Cortez's financial disclosures showed that she was far from being a millionaire, much less a multi-millionaire. Many other users repeated the same rumor about her finances in subse quent tweets, not to mention the fact that we've also received reader mail about this subject in the past.
At the time of the event, reputable publications reported about Gates being hit in the face with the pie, including The New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, the Tampa Bay Times, and the New York Daily News.  The New York Times reported it was Godin's idea, and that his co-conspirators waited for Gates to pass by on the street, holding hidden tarts in camera bags and under their coats. The Times wrote that Godin had previously successfully pied 22 people. The publication also reported part of the reason Gates was chosen to be pied was because Godin felt Gates "chooses to function in the service of the capitalist status quo, without really using his intelligence or his imagination.''
The clip never provided evidence that Tom Hanks had said or revealed anything about Winfrey in relation to the Maui wildfires. The video simply spent 10 minutes and 57 seconds presenting baseless conspiracy theories similar to those that can be found in posts on social media and in comments under news articles. As we've seen with many of these AI-generated videos across multiple celebrity gossip YouTube channels, this clip contained a misleading video title with a mix of old and unrelated news, false claims and other emotionally charged moments that likely were meant to elicit angry responses in the comments. The video simply spent 10 minutes and 57 seconds presenting baseless conspiracy theories similar to those that can be found in posts on social media and in comments under news articles.
However, this is not an authentic video of Volodymyr Zelenskyy performing a belly dance. The original video, published on June 1, 2023, showed Pablo Acosta, a dancer from Argentina.When we compared the "Zelenskyy" video to the one published on @pabloacostabellydance Instagram account, it became clear that the viral footage had been digitally manipulated to superimpose Zelenskyy's face on Acosta's body. Therefore, we rated this claim as Fake.
The truth of this matter was that the title of the video was false as The clip never provided evidence that Will Smith or Jada Pinkett Smith had benefitted from the Maui wildfires. The video simply provided information about how the family had previously sold two properties on the completely separate Hawaiian island of Kauai in 2011 and 2017, years before the deadly wildfires on Maui. As we've seen with many of these AI-generated videos across multiple celebrity gossip YouTube channels, this clip contained a misleading video title with a mix of old and unrelated news, false claims and other emotionally charged moments that likely were meant to elicit angry responses in the comments. Such videos often end up with hundreds or thousands of comments from users who indicated that they had believed the misleading information presented in the clips.
Most of Bakhmut is controlled by Russia and there is no evidence that Ukraine has liberated Bakhmut.There is, however, no evidence that Bakhmut has been liberated by Ukraine. If Russia had been pushed out of Bakhmut by Ukraine, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense has not confirmed that Bakhmut has been liberated, either. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW), a non-partisan think tank that publishes daily assessments of the Russian-Ukrainian War, reported in its April 25 assessment that Russia continued its assault on western Bakhmut. Misinformation around Biden is not new. Check Your Fact recently debunked an image claiming to show Biden and Alexander Soros, the son of George Soros, in front of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein’s island, Little St. James.
The image is from the 2018 World Cup celebrations in Paris, France. It does not show anti-Macron protests. However, the image is from events that were neither for nor against Macron. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the image is from the 2018 World Cup celebrations. France won the World Cup, defeating Croatia 4-2, according to NPR. “People celebrate on the Champs Elysees avenue after the final of the russia 2018 World Cup Football Match between France and Croatia in Paris, France on july 15, 2018,” according to the image description.
Texas  State do not have a legal right to secede on their own, according to the Supreme Court and experts. Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law Houston, told Check Your Fact in an email that “the answer is no” and Texas “cannot secede.” He also pointed Check Your Fact to a Texas Tribune article for further reasons why Texas could not secede by itself. The Supreme Court ruled in an 1869 case, Texas v. White, that states did not have the ability to secede on their own, according to The Texas Tribune. Chief Justice Salmon Chase wrote that the “union between Texas and the other States was as complete, as perpetual, and as indissoluble as the union between the original States.”
There is no evidence that Japan has provided tanks to Ukraine. The video is created in a similar format to other videos that portray false or misleading news about the Russian-Ukrainian war. For example, Check Your Fact recently fact-checked a video claiming that Ukrainian NASAMs shot down 100 Russian aircraft. These types of videos have been circulating social media, especially Facebook, since the war began last year, according to a July 2022 report from PolitiFact. Check Your Fact has reached out to the Japanese Embassy in the U.S. and will update this article if a response is provided.
The viral claim is false  Check Your Fact found no credible news reports indicating Musk tweeted the purported remark that he was closing the social media platform.. Likewise, an advanced Twitter search also does not generate the supposed tweet via Musk’s verified account. In addition, a review of PolitiTweet’s deleted tweet tracker does not reveal the purported tweet from Musk.  The purported tweet attributed to Musk appears to be satirical. The social media user who posted the tweet indicated it was not real in response to a comment from another social media user.
There is no credible news report that suggests this image is a genuine UFO sighting in Kyiv, Ukraine. . The image can be traced back to a 2018 promotional ad for Ukrainian hauling company Express-T, according to local outlet Antikor.  The prop appeared in several of their ads on Instagram and other sites. There is no evidence that this has a relation to real UFOs or to the war in Ukraine. This is not the first time a video has been shared online with a false or misleading caption. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim former President Donald Trump called criticized Ron DeSantis for running for President.
However, there is no evidence that Russian “castles” have been blown up, let alone multiple ones. If four Russian castles had been blown up, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense has not commented on whether or not it has targeted Russian “castles.” ISW did report in its April 22 assessment that “Ukrainian forces and likely partisans continue to target Russian logistics nodes in rear areas in southern Ukraine.” Russian bases have been hit in recent days. For example, open source intelligence (OSINT) account NLwartracker wrote on Twitter about a Russian base being hit by Ukrainian fire.
Through reverse image searches, Check Your Fact found that the images in the Facebook post predate the current fighting by years. The image showing the pipeline on fire is from 2006 and can be found on iStock. The image caption reads, “Leaking pipe flange in advanced burn after being left unchecked for 30 seconds. Fuel is leaking out at high pressure and burning in the background as well as on the ground.” The second image showing the leaking pipeline is from 2010 and was also uploaded to iStock. Check Your Fact could not determine where these images were taken. There is also no evidence that oil pipelines in Port Sudan have been destroyed by locals or the fighting.
However, there is no evidence that this video was taken in Fairfield and  If a Walmart was recently looted in Fairfield, California, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Neither the Fairfield Police Department nor the Fairfield Walmart has posted on Facebook about looting at the store. Check Your Fact could not independently confirm where the video was taken. Some individuals pointed to an October 2020 YouTube video showing a looted Walmart in Philadelphia posted by independent videographer Brendan Gutenschwager, but Gutenschwager said it “doesn’t appear to to be from the same store.”
Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about Budweiser brands being banned from Oktoberfest.Check Your Fact reached out to Oktoberfest and Anheuser-Busch for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received from either source. This is not the first time misinformation about Budweiser has gone viral. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim that Budweiser planned to discontinue Bud Light. The claim is fabricated, however. The post includes a link to an article from Dunning-Kruger Times, which identifies itself as satire in its “About Us” page. The disclaimer reads, “Everything on this website is fiction. It is not a lie and it is not fake news because it is not real,” it reads in part. 
An Egyptian agency said that the image shows Egyptian soldiers on exercise not escaping from Merowi, Sudan.However, this image is unrelated to the current crisis in Sudan. Through a reverse image and keyword search, Check Your Fact found that the image has been circulating since 2021. One iteration, translated by Google Translate, reads, “This is a 5-kilometer suburban run in the morning, and then you go back to breakfast with “lentils and jam,” normal?”. Egypt’s State Information Service, a government agency responsible for public relations, said the image was unrelated to the clashes on Facebook.
There is no evidence that Trump made this statement of calling General Letitia James an “animal” also There is no credible news report that suggests this tweet is authentic. There is no record of this statement on Trump’s verified Truth Social. The screenshot appears to have originated on a satirical Twitter account called Mrs. Betty Bowers. The account followed up this post with a tweet that clarified that this post was satirical saying, “NOTE; That ‘truth’ is PARODY.” Truth Social posts are called “truths.” This account has posted other content that is similar in nature.This is not the first time misinformation about a Republican making a post has been shared online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim Lauren Boebert tweeted about the “rule of law.”
While Germany’s Federal Office of Justice has started proceedings against Twitter, it has not fined Twitter of  $30 billion. The claim appears to stem from a TechCrunch article. The TechCrunch article reports that Twitter could face fines up to €30 billion, but it does not state that Germany has issued such a massive fine against Twitter. Check Your Fact reached out to Twitter’s press team, which responded with a poop emoji. Check Your Fact reached out to Germany’s Federal Office of Justice and will update this article if a response is provided.
The claim is baseless. A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) spokesperson confirmed that HIV is contagious in an email to Check Your Fact. “Yes, HIV is contagious. Most people get HIV through anal or vaginal sex, or sharing needles, syringes, or other drug injection equipment (for example, cookers),” a CDC spokesperson confirmed in an email to Check Your Fact. “But there are powerful tools to help prevent HIV transmission.”  The spokesperson also directed Check Your Fact to a page on the CDC website detailing more information about HIV and its transmission. Check Your Fact has reached out to HIV.gov for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. 
The social media user who shared the video admitted it was digitally manipulated in a subsequent post. The user responded to a comment from another social media user who labeled the video as a “deepfake.”There are no credible news reports indicating Clinton has endorsed DeSantis for president during an MSNBC appearance. Likewise, the claim neither appears on Clinton’s website nor her verified social media accounts. In addition, DeSantis has not publicly addressed the purported claim. The original clip of Clinton on MSNBC finds the former Secretary of State reflecting on the 2016 election, among other topics. At the time of publication, DeSantis has not officially announced a 2024 presidential bid. 
There are no credible news reports indicating Obama is relocating to Kenya in June 2023. Likewise, the claim neither appears on the former president’s website nor his verified social media accounts. In addition, Kenyan President William Ruto has not publicly addressed the purported claim. Check Your Fact has contacted Obama for comment through the Obama Foundation and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. The user who shared the claim on Twitter on Apr. 4 did not indicate it was an April Fool’s Day story.The post further claims the former president will serve as Special Envoy for U.S. Diplomacy in Kenya.
The claim is false. The original video of the church burning was uploaded to YouTube in January 2013. A translation of the video’s title indicates it was filmed in Ilyinka, Russia. A website focusing on Russia’s Volodarsky District reported the fire occurred at the Church of the Kazan Icon of the Mother of God.There are no credible news reports suggesting Ukrainians were responsible for burning down a Russian church. Likewise, the claim neither appears on the Kremlin’s website nor its verified Twitter account. In addition, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has not publicly addressed the purported claim.
The claim is based on an altered document. The original document shows that the United States allegedly estimated Ukraine has suffered around 15,500 to 17,000 deaths, not 71,000. “We have low confidence in Russian (RUS) and Ukrainian (UKR) attrition rates and inventories because of information gaps, OPSEC and IO efforts, and potential bias in UKR information sharing,” the document reads. “Casualty assessments, which fluctuate depending on the source, are informed by RUS, Vagner, and UKR officials.” Check Your Fact has not been able to independently determine the authenticity of the documents. U.S. officials told CNN that some of the documents in the overall leak are authentic.
There is no evidence that Trump Jr. made this statementon his  father’s supporters to wear clean clothes when they protest..There is no credible news report that suggests this tweet is authentic. There is no record of this statement on Trump Jr’s verified Twitter account. Likewise, there is no record of this on the deleted tweet tracker, PolitiTweet. This is not the first time misinformation about the former president has spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim that Trump had a child out of wedlock.
Rebekah  Jones’ son was arrested due to posts threatening to shoot up a school, according to a sheriff’s office incident report not for sharing memes. Jones’ son was arrested because of threatening internet posts, according to Pensacola News Journal. He was turned into the sheriff’s office, where he was scheduled to be arraigned in May before he was released back into Jones’ custody after being subjected to electronic monitoring and ordered not to contact anyone at the school, the outlet reported. Check Your Fact obtained a copy of the incident report, which showed that Jones’ son allegedly sent messages threatening to shoot up a school. Check Your Fact is not naming the son since he is a minor.
The protests were against Spain’s government, not the World Economic Forum WEF  However, there is no evidence that this video shows protests against the WEF. Through a keyword search, Check Your Fact found that the original video was posted Jan. 21, 2023, on TikTok. The video was tagged with hashtags about Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and the Plaza de Cibeles. Check Your Fact geolocated the video and found it was taken from a building near the Plaza de Cibeles. Check Your Fact could not find any credible news outlets reporting on any mass Spanish protests against the WEF, but did find reporting on other mass protests in Spain.
The Twitter website states that Twitter Blue costs $8 per month on the web and $11 per month for iOS or Android there is no evidence for this claim, however. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about the alleged price increase. Twitter Blue costs $8 per month on the web and $11 per month for iOS or Android, according to a page on Twitter’s Help Center. Check Your Fact has reached out to Twitter for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. This is not the first time misinformation involving Musk has gone viral. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim that Musk is filing a lawsuit against the TV show “The View” for lying about him.
 There are no credible news reports suggesting MacDonald made the purported remark in 2016,  Likewise, the claim neither appears on MacDonald’s official website nor his social media accounts. In addition, the National Center for Transgender Equality has not publicly addressed the claim. The Facebook post appears to show an archived tweet by MacDonald in December 2016, expressing concern that a transgender person would attack a school with guns. The tweet is digitally fabricated. In the original tweet, MacDonald hypothesizes what would happen if the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) “detonated a nuclear device and killed 50 million Americans."
There is no evidence Musk is suing the show “The View” or network.The claim is false. It appears to stem from a satirical website called, SpaceXMania.com. The article includes a tag above the headline identifying the article as satire and the website is described as satire in a disclaimer section. They claim, “Please note that some of the articles on this website are satirical in nature and are not meant to be taken seriously.” They also warn they make no claims that their content is accurate or truthful. This is not the first time misinformation has spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim Attorney General Merrick Garland is launching an investigation into those who protest President Joe Biden.
There is no evidence Russian President Vladimir that Putin has been arrested. The images are likely generated by artificial intelligence. If Putin had been arrested, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The ICC nor the Russian government have announced that Putin had been arrested. The images appear to be generated by artificial intelligence (AI). Several startups allow people to generate images through the use of AI, according to AFP France. Social media users often share these AI-generated images without noting that they are not real. 
No, Trump Did Not Offer To Pay The Legal Fees For Protestors. The Twitter post purports Trump has offered to pay for any legal fees that arise for those who protest his potential indictment. The post shared a screenshot of an alleged statement with Trump’s letterhead. There are no credible news reports that suggest Trump made this statement. The post appears to have stemmed from a satirical Twitter account. The account, The Halfway Post, self identifies as a satire. The account bio reads, “Halfway true comedy and satire by @DashMacIntyre. I don’t report the facts, I improve them."
The U.S. Government formally congratulated Bola Ahmed  Tinubu also There is no evidence suggesting the U.S. has retracted their congratulation or have raised any suspicions. There is no credible news report that suggests the U.S. Government did not congratulate Tinubu on his presidential win. Spokesperson Ned Price led a Department Press Briefing, at the Department of State, on Mar. 1, 2023 to officially congratulate Tinubu. The U.S. Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria also issued a statement of congratulations to Tinubu.
There is no evidence Norway attacked Russian warships. Norway has also not publicly provided anti-ship missiles to Ukraine, according to an independent analysis. There is no evidence Norway attacked Russian warships also If Norway had done such a thing, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Neither the Norwegian Ministry of Defense nor its military has issued news releases stating Russian warships had been attacked by Norwegian missiles . The Russian Navy’s North Fleet is conducting a command and staff exercise that involves 20 warships and support vessels, according to The Barents Observer. 
Ukraine has not liberated Crimea, though Ukrainian officials have stated on several occasions one of their goals is to retake the area. This claim, however, is false. If Ukraine had retaken Crimea, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense nor the President of Ukraine‘s office have announced the liberation of Crimea. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW), a non-partisan think tank, has not reported any retaking of Crimea. In its March 14 update, it did not state that Ukrainian troops had taken control of Crimea. The institute’s March 14 maps do not show Crimea under Ukrainian control either.
While the recent bank collapses under President Joe Biden are the biggest since 2008, approximately 16 banks collapsed during Trump’s presidency. The list of banks that collapsed and failed under Trump’s presidency include the Washington Federal Bank for Savings, City National Bank of New Jersey, First City Bank of Florida and the Resolute Bank, according to FDIC. Misinformation around politicians is not new. Check Your Fact previously debunked an image claiming to show Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot buying beer after losing her 2023 mayoral election.
There have been no reports of a UFO sighting in the area surrounding Eau Claire. This is not a genuine video, however. The footage was debunked in a YouTube video from November 2014 by an account called UFO Theater, a channel that focuses on debunking UFO hoaxes. Likewise, there are no credible news reports about a UFO sighting in Eau Claire. Check Your Fact has reached out to the city of Eau Claire for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.  This is not the first time misinformation involving UFOs has spread online. Check Your Fact previously debunked a video claiming to show a U.S. fighter jet shooting down an unidentified flying object.
The post is digitally fabricated. There is no evidence that Musk posted this on his Twitter  that the earth is flat.Furthermore, SpaceX has made over 200 successful launches to space, suggesting the company knows the Earth is not flat. Most recently crew-5 Mission team returned from 157 days in space. NASA reported that NASA astronauts Nicole Mann and Josh Cassada, JAXA (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency) astronaut Koichi Wakata, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Anna Kikina returned safely on Mar. 11. The flat-earth theory has gained traction in recent years, but has been debunked numerous times by scientists and other evidence, according to Skeptic.
There is no credible news report that suggests this factory is a chemical plant where a a fire that broke out . Local news outlet, Verona Sera, published footage that shows the logo on the building reads, “Coati.” Coati is a cured meat producer, not a chemical plant. The website issued a statement that announced the cause of the Feb. 9 fire is currently under investigation. Yahoo news reported that 300 people were evacuated and one person was injured as a result of the fire.  This is not the first time a video has been shared online with a false or misleading caption about a foreign country. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video that had been shared as evidence of election fraud in Nigeria.
This video was not taken in Ukraine which shows Swedish Leopard 2 tanks during a training exercise in April 2022. This is not the first time footage has been falsely linked to the Russia-Ukraine war. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video that allegedly showed North American Treaty Organization helicopters flying in Ukraine. Joakim Elovsson, the chief public affairs officer for the Skaraborgs Regiment, confirmed to Check Your Fact in an email that the tanks are Swedish and the exercise took place in Sweden.
While the two women do look similar, Babbitt has been confirmed dead by the government, her family and husband.
This claim, however, is false. Babbitt’s death has been confirmed by the DOJ, the United States Capitol Police and family. The DOJ’s April 2021 press release stated it “examined video footage posted on social media, statements from the officer involved and other officers and witnesses to the events, physical evidence from the scene of the shooting, and the results of an autopsy” during its investigation of Babbitt’s death.
This claim is false. As of March 10, the Congresswoman is still posting on her verified Twitter account. Democrat Rep. Alexandria Ocasio Cortez has not mentioned any such ban on her other social media accounts. Likewise, Musk has not announced on his Twitter account that any such ban has taken effect.  Musk received criticism from Cortez late last year when he suspended a journalist who posted his real-time location on twitter, claiming they could be used to harm him, according to Fox News. This is not the first time misinformation has spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim Attorney General Merrick Garland is launching an investigation into those who protest President Joe Biden.
The claim is false. There are no credible news reports suggesting Putin has ordered the destruction of all COVID-19 vaccines in Russia. Likewise, the claim neither appears on the Kremlin’s website nor its verified Twitter account. In addition, the Russian Ministry of Health has not publicly addressed the claim via its official website. A keyword search reveals the claim stems from a Mar. 4 article published on the website, “Real Raw News.” A disclaimer included on the site’s “About Us” indicates it contains “humor, parody,” and satire.” Check Your Fact has contacted the Kremlin for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
The claim is false. There are no credible news reports suggesting Smith & Wesson shared a photo of a shirt bearing the Proud Boys logo on their Instagram account. Likewise, the company has not voiced their support for the group on their website or verified social media accounts. Smith & Wesson shared the photos in a Feb. 27 post published on their verified Twitter account. The gun manufacturer indicated the shirt promoted Perce|eption Brand apparel. A photo of the Proud Boys’ official logo published on Reuters also uses black and gold coloring, but the font differs from that of the Perce|eption Brand logo.
There is no evidence that this occurred. If Twitter was censoring the Ukrainian flag, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Twitter’s rules also do not state that the display of the Ukrainian flag is restricted to Twitter Blue subscribers. Ella Irwin, the head of trust and safety at Twitter, told AFP Fact Check that the company was “not aware of any such notice or restriction.” The image does have a parallel. Twitter did tell users that SMS two-factor authentication would be restricted to Twitter Blue subscribers, according to The Guardian. Misinformation regarding Twitter and Musk has spread widely on social media since his acquisition of the platform in 2022. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim in December 2022 suggesting the Twitter CEO was planning to buy Snapchat.
There is no evidence Clinton has been charged or sentenced for any crime and never gone to jail. There is no evidence Clinton will be going to jail. If she was, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Department of Justice has not released any statements indicating or confirming that it has charged or jailed Clinton for any crimes. Through a reverse image, Check Your Fact found that the video is from October 2018 from the Next News Network YouTube channel. The video focused on reporting about a federal judge saying that the State Department provided “clearly false” statements about Clinton’s documents, according to Fox News.
Check Your Fact did not find any press releases or news reports that the Romanian Prime Minister, the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Romanian embassy in the U.S. placed blame on the U.S. for the earthquake. The video also repeats a false claim that the High-frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) was potentially responsible for the earthquake, as that claim has been debunked by news outlets such as USA Today and the South China Morning Post. Check Your Fact reached out to the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for comment and will update this article if a response is provided.
The video is from a 2018 incident in France, not the U.S in which student aiming an armed gun. This video was not taken in the U.S. A reverse image search found the video dates back to a 2018 incident that occurred in France. The 15-year-old student turned himself in to police after the teacher filed a complaint the following day. The student told police that it was a joke and the weapon turned out to be fake, according to BBC News. There is no credible news report that has suggested that this is a recent video from the U.S. This is not the first time a video with a misleading or false caption has been spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a post claiming birds in Kentucky died from exposure to chemicals released from the train derailment in Ohio.
There is no evidence to suggest the word is being removed or prohibited from public platforms. The claim is incorrect. There is no credible news report that has suggested that there is any such ban. No such legislation is present on the city council’s website that considers banning the word. Rather, official social media accounts of the city still use the word in some of their post. The city’s Twitter account recently shared a post in support of Women’s History Month, which included multiple instances of the word.
Check Your Fact found no credible news reports showing the alleged video of Musk speaking about unblocking Andrew  Tate.Tate has mentioned the Matrix many times before, telling his followers to “break free,” usually with his products. This is most likely referring to the 1999 film “The Matrix,” in which humans are uploaded to a computer program they believe is real life. Tate also believes the Matrix may have been involved in his detainment.This is not the first time misinformation about a prominent figure has spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim Karine Jean-Pierre sent a TikTok video to reporters.
Musk has previously voiced his support for artificial intelligence software, but has not endorsed any AIs like  Cryptocurrency software, Quantum AI other than ones made by his company, Tesla. Furthermore, there is no evidence Musk endorsed the software. He did not post these comments on his Twitter account. The video used an out of context clip of Musk speaking at 2017 TED Talk interview, which does not talk about the software.Check Your Fact has reached out to Musk and CBC News for comment on this claim. We will update this piece if a response is provided. 
While the U.S. is planning to send Abrams tanks to Ukraine, none of the tanks have arrived in the country as of Feb. 2. The claim appears to have originated from a Telegram channel.If Russia had destroyed an M1 Abrams in Ukraine, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have but the Russian Ministry of Defense did not report in its Jan. 27 update that it destroyed an Abrams tank, though it claimed to have destroyed other U.S.-made military equipment, such as M77 howitzers.The claim appears to have originated from a Russian Telegram channel that claimed an Abrams tank had been destroyed, which showed an image of a tank on fire, according to Newsweek. While Check Your Fact could not verify when the image was taken, a reverse image search revealed that the image has been circulating since 2010.
This caption is inaccurate. A reverse image search found that the video is from a tropical cyclone that hit Taiwan in 2015, as seen in The Independent   but there is no credible news report that suggests footage is a recent storm in  Pasadena, Texas. The footage is from the typhoon that hit the island in August 2015, which killed approximately 28 people and left multiple others missing, according to Insider. The typhoon brought winds of up to 120 miles per hour and triggered multiple landslides, the outlet reported. This is not the first time a video has been falsely attributed to a disaster online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a post alleging to be a video of a recent plane crash in Nepal.
 However  no evidence to support her claims that A.I robots had killed at least 29 scientists in Japan.. She gives no names of victims, witnesses or the name of the lab that the incident occurred in. The claim has circulated on social media for several years, going as far back as 2018, according to OregonLive. Howe also claimed the information came from a source within the Central Intelligence Agency, the outlet reported.
A Poundland spokesperson confirmed that no branches of the store were selling the prince’s memoir in an email to Check Your Fact. There are no credible news reports suggesting Prince Harry’s memoir, “Spare” is being sold at the British store Poundland. Likewise, Poundland has not advertised the book on its website or associated social media accounts. This is not the first time a false claim has been made in relation to the prince’s memoir. In November, Check Your Fact debunked a social media post purporting Prince Harry claimed bowling saved his life in the book.
Check Your Fact found no statements on the Japanese prime minister’s website regarding an investigation into millions of deaths caused  by the COVID-19 vaccine. Likewise, there are no credible news reports to suggest that Japan has launched such an investigation. Check Your Fact reached out to the World Health Organization for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.  Check Your Fact reached out to the World Health Organization for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. 
The claim is baseless. There is no evidence that Messi will be on the country’s currency. Messi led his Argentina soccer team to a FIFA World Cup win Dec. 18 over the defending France, NPR reported reported. Messi announced in the run up to the Qatar games that this would be his final appearance in the FIFA World Cup, according to The Guardian. The Twitter post purportedly shows an image of the new 1,000-peso bills that will feature Messi, but does not include where this information originated from. “Lionel Messi to be Honored With his Own Banknote after Historic World Cup Victory,” the post reads.
There are no credible news reports suggesting Musk announced his 2024 presidential election campaign. Likewise, Musk has not publicly commented on the purported claim via his verified Twitter account. No such announcement of paperwork is available through the Federal Elections Commission website. Although Musk might be able to conduct a successful campaign, he is not eligible to run for president in the U.S. under Article II, Section 1, Clause 5 of the Constitution, which states that anyone who wishes to hold the office must be either “a natural born citizen or a Citizen of the United States.”
There is no evidence that the Baltic Sea is closed to Russian naval vessels. The Russian Navy is also conducting exercises outside the Baltic Sea. Furthermore, a Russian naval vessel, the Admiral Golovko, is conducting factory trials in the Baltic Sea, according to Naval Technology. The Russian Navy is also conducting exercises in the Mediterranean and with the Chinese Navy, The Jerusalem Post reported.  The video itself talks about how Sweden and Finland being added to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) would make the Baltic Sea a NATO lake. It does not offer evidence that NATO had closed the Baltic Sea to Russian shipping.
Retiring Illinois Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger made that comment of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) could defeat Russia in three days., not Putin.


There is no evidence Musk is planning to make any more acquisitions of such a nature.There are no credible news report that Musk is buying the company. This announcement appears on none of Musk’s verified social media accounts. Neither Tesla Motors or General Motors have made any press releases mentioning this purchase. Check Your Fact has contacted Tesla for comment on these possible acquisitions and will update this piece if a response is provided. Musk has spoken a lot about GM on his Twitter, constantly making comparisons between it and his company, Tesla.
This video is digitally fabricated. It originates from a TikTok account that promotes an editing app that alters celebrity videos. The bio claims the app to allows  you to “make any celebrity say anything.” There are no credible news reports suggesting that Musk made such a statement of purchasing  social media company Meta.  This is not the first time misinformation about Musk has spread since his acquisition of Twitter. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim that Musk said former Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey was paid by the Democratic party.
There are no credible news reports suggesting JAG investigators interviewed Wolf in response to the release of the “Twitter Files.” Likewise, the claim is neither mentioned on the DHS website nor on its verified social media accounts. Wolf also has not publicly commented on the purported claim. A keyword search reveals the claim stems from a Dec. 10 article published by the website, “Real Raw News.” A disclaimer included on the site’s “About Us” page indicates it contains “humor, parody, and satire.”“This is not true,” Navy JAG spokesperson Devin Arneson said of the purported claim in an email to Check Your Fact.
 A spokesperson for The New York Times denied the outlet had published the headline in an email to Check Your Fact.There are no credible news reports suggesting The New York Times published the purported headline  about Moroccan football fans. Likewise, a search of the outlet’s website and verified social media accounts does not generate the supposed article. The Morocco National Football Team also has not publicly commented on the purported claim via its website or verified Twitter and Instagram accounts.Check Your Fact has also contacted the Royal Moroccan Football Federation for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
While 10,000  Russian troops have been gathering in Belarus, there is no evidence of an invasion from the country.The video itself does not make the claim. The video is a readout of a Daily Express article that reports how Ukrainian forces are preparing a “hellish reception” if Russian/Belarusian troops invade from Belarus. This is not the first time misinformation regarding Belarus’ involvement in the Russia-Ukraine war has circulated online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim suggesting.
Ukraine sentenced the man to 15 years in prison for espionage and kidnapping The arrest had nothing to do with the Russian flag outside his window. There are no credible news reports suggesting that the man had been arrested for simply hanging a flag on a building. Misinformation surrounding the Ukraine-Russia conflict has spread widely on social media since its start in February 2022. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim suggesting the 73rd naval fleet of the Russian navy was destroyed.
Arizona has 4 million registered voters, not 9 million. The claim has been circulating since 2020. The claim has been circulating since October 2020. The 9 million number is a reference to the total number of people who shared on Facebook that they registered to vote, not the total number of registered voters in Arizona, according to Politifact. A Meta spokesperson confirmed to Check Your Fact that it shows the nationwide amount of people who registered to vote in 2020.Misinformation around the Arizona elections has been circulating since early November. Check Your Fact recently fact-checked an image that made misleading claims about Election Day voting in Maricopa County.
While Sevastopol has been attacked by drones before, there is no evidence of the destruction of several 73rd  Russian naval vessels. This claim, though, lacks evidence. If the Ukrainians had destroyed the alleged 73rd Naval Fleet or any ships in Sevastopol, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. Neither Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense nor Russia’s Ministry of Defense has released statements confirming the destruction of any major Russian naval unit. Ukraine’s military has claimed to have destroyed 16 Russian naval vessels as of Dec. 7. This claim has not changed since Nov. 2.
Data and climate experts suggests the biggest contributor to climate change is fossil fuels, not animal agriculture. The Instagram photo claims animal agriculture is the top contributor to climate change. The post uses a meme to share the information.This claim is incorrect. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) website shows a graph reporting that carbon dioxide from fossil fuels makes up 65% of emissions, whereas carbon dioxide via agriculture makes up only 11%. A pie chart showing global gas emissions by sector shows only 24% of emissions come from agriculture and forestry industries, the agency reports.Check Your Fact has reached out to the EPA for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. 
The footage is from a military-based simulation game not  Russian special forces being attacked in Ukraine..This claim, though, is false. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found the video was posted to YouTube Dec. 2 with the same title. The Facebook video shows footage from ARMA 3, a simulation-based video game published by Bohemia Interactive.Russian casualty estimates differ. The Ukrainian Armed Forces estimate that Russia has lost 92,000 troops as of Dec. 6. The United States estimates that Russia has lost around 100,000 troops (killed, wounded, missing in action ETC), while BBC News has confirmed a minimum of 9,000 dead Russian troops through open-source information.
The viral  image has been digitally altered. The original image shows Biden wearing a white shawl not a lobster jacket to an event. This is not the first time the first lady has been the subject of misinformation on social media. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim purporting Jill Biden had said she “would have been fine” if her mother aborted her. If Jill Biden had worn anything related to lobsters, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. A wider internet search also did not yield any credible results for the alleged image.The image is digitally altered. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found that the original image shows the First Lady wearing a white shawl. There is no indication that she is wearing any lobster designs in the image.
This image does not depict Nazi swastikas. Instead, it depicts a Latvian symbol that represents prosperity. The same symbol caused another controversy in 2013 at an ice hockey match between Russia and Latvia. Performers used ribbons to form the symbol at the opening ceremony, many did not know the Latvian symbol, BBC reported.The spokesperson added that these symbols have been present in Latvian clothing, notably detailed woven belts, considered “among the most venerated of woven Latvian folk artifacts.” This is not the first time misinformation involving a swastika has spread online. Check Your Fact previously debunked an image that claimed to show Ukrainian school children in a swastika-shaped formation.
Russia is not evacuating Crimea. While there is a report of a city being evacuated in the northern part of Crimea, occupational officials denied the claim. Russian occupational officials rejected claims that they were evacuating a city in the northern part of the peninsula, according to Radio Free Europe. Russia is reportedly digging defenses in Crimea to protect against a potential Ukrainian advance, the outlet reported. Misinformation regarding the state of the Russia-Ukraine war has been widespread since the start of the war in February 2022. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video that allegedly showed “hundreds” of Russian Submarines being sunk by Ukraine.
Schiff did not admit to tampering with evidence about the events surrounding the Jan. 6.  He was alluding to personal information that should be removed to protect people’s safety. There is no credible news report that supports the claim that Schiff admitted to illegally hiding evidence from the Republican leadership in the House. Statements made by public figures are often taken out of context by social media users. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim that the Director of the World Health Organization said the COVID-19 vaccine kills children.
Arizona’s voting equipment is certified by both Arizona and the U.S. Elections Assistance Commission. The claim stems from a misunderstanding of the certification process. This claim is incorrect. Documentation available on the Arizona Secretary of State’s website shows the voting equipment –Unisyn, Election Systems & Services, Dominion– used in the 2022 election. These systems are certified, according to the Arizona Secretary of State’s website. The equipment was also certified by the United States Election Assistance Commission (EAC).Misinformation surrounding the results of the 2022 Midterm elections in Arizona is widespread on social media. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video allegedly showing state law enforcement officials hosting a press conference announcing the discovery of voter fraud.
The image appears in a 2015 Telegraph article about smugglers entering Saudi Arabia with beer cans disguised as Peps and there are no credible news reports suggesting soccer fans smuggled alcohol into the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Likewise, the claim neither appears on FIFA’s website nor its verified social media accounts. The official Twitter account for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar also has not publicly mentioned the claim. FIFA published a statement on Nov. 18 informing soccer fans that alcohol, with the exception of Bud Zero, would not be sold at stadiums hosting the World Cup in Qatar.
While Gates did not comment on “death panels” at the G-20 Summit, he did discuss the concept during a 2010 interview at the Aspen Ideas Festival. Gates claimed mishandling of healthcare funds and particularly end-of-life care was having a negative effect on education. Check Your Fact has also contacted the G-20 Summit for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.“We confirm that Bill Gates did not attend the G-20 meeting,” a spokesperson for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said of the claim in an email to Check Your Fact.
Hassan won 106 votes, while her opponent, Republican senatorial candidate Don Bolduc, received 203 votes. While an initial report did suggest Hassan won 1,106 votes, it was caused by a typo that was corrected by the New Hampshire Secretary of State. The Facebook post claims that Hassan won 1,100 votes in a town with a population of 700 people. Election results from the Secretary of State’s office did initially show Hassan had 1,106 votes in Columbia, New Hampshire, according to The Associated Press. Columbia has a population of 659, per the 2020 census.
Iran has sentenced five protesters to death, not 15,000. Iran’s parliament has called for harsher sentences on protesters, up to and including the death penalty. Iranian state media has reported that 227 of 290 members of Iran’s parliament have called for harsher penalties for protesters, including the death penalty. Iran’s judiciary is responsible for prosecuting and sentencing individuals, according to BBC News.Shayan Sardarizadeh, a BBC News reporter who is covering the Iranian protests, stated in a Twitter thread that the claim is “inaccurate.”  
The footage is from a military-based simulation game. The Facebook video, viewed more than 31,000 times, claims to show a Russian naval infantry battalion being destroyed in Kherson. The video shows a battle occurring between what is assumed to be a Ukrainian force and a Russian one. This claim, though, is false. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found the video was posted to YouTube Nov. 9 with the same title. The Facebook video shows footage from ARMA 3, a simulation-based video game published by Bohemia Interactive.Misinformation around the Russian-Ukrainian conflict is not new. Check Your Fact recently debunked a video claiming to show “hundreds” of Russian vehicles being destroyed in a matter of minutes.
The video shows Pelosi leaving her San Francisco home following an attack on her husband, Paul, according to NBC Bay Area. There are no credible news reports suggesting the Democratic Speaker of the House was arrested. Likewise, Pelosi has neither mentioned the claim via her website nor her verified social media accounts. The San Francisco Police Department also has not commented on the purported claim. Check Your Fact has contacted Pelosi’s office for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
Ukraine partnered with FTX to process cryptocurrency donations and there is no evidence that Ukraine took aid from the U.S. to invest in FTX. The Washington Post reported in March that Bankman-Fried donated a “large sum” to Ukraine. He also stated the platform gave all Ukrainian users $25 each at the start of the war, according to Insider.
However, there is no evidence U.S. military aid was funded into the platform and then to Democrat candidates. Media outlets that have reported on these claims, such as Fox News, have not provided any evidence Ukraine was using U.S. aid money to invest in FTX.
Maricopa County increased the amount of polling places from 175 in 2020 to 223 in 2022. The number of polling places increased from the August 2022 primary.
The U.K. has not suspended their funding to Ukraine. U.K. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has repeatedly affirmed his support for Ukraine. There are no credible news reports suggesting the U.K. will no longer send aid to Ukraine. There are no announcements related to this claim on the U.K. Treasury website. Likewise, there is no announcement on their verified Twitter account. Check Your Fact contacted Britain’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office for comment and will update this piece if a response is provided. This is not the first time misinformation about Ukraine has spread online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s autobiography shares the same title as Hitler’s.
 There are no credible news reports suggesting Musk made such remarks about a verification system for Jewish Twitter users. Likewise, neither Musk nor Twitter Communications have publicly commented on the claim via their verified social media accounts. There is also no mention of the purported claim on Twitter’s company news blog. The suspension follows a Sunday tweet from Musk informing Twitter users that anyone “engaging in impersonation without clearly specifying ‘parody’ will be permanently suspended,” according to CNN.Check Your Fact has contacted Twitter for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
The text in the photo is not of a legitimate decree. Neither Bolsonaro or the armed forces have not declared martial lawin the recent presidential election.   There are no credible news reports suggesting that martial law was declared in Brazil. No such announcement has appeared from the office of the president. Likewise, no such action has been considered by the Senate. Bolsonaro admitted defeat two days after the election results were released, the New York Post reported. The outgoing president did consider legal recourse, such as the possibility of disqualifying the president-elect Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva based on his past criminal convictions, according to the outlet.
There is no evidence that Bancel was arrested by the Special Forces on charges of murder.There are no credible news reports suggesting Bancel was arrested by the Special Forces on murder charges. Likewise, Moderna has not mentioned the purported claim in any recent press releases or statements published to their verified social media accounts. The U.S. Army also has not publicly commented on the claim.
There are no credible news reports suggesting Musk published a statement saying he’d buy and delete TikTok. Likewise, TikTok has neither mentioned the claim via a press release nor its verified social media accounts.Check Your Fact has contacted a TikTok spokesperson for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received. This is not the first time Musk has been the subject of a false social media claim. Check Your Fact previously debunked a digitally fabricated image of a New York Times article purporting Musk would restore all banned Twitter accounts, except for former President Donald Trump’s.
 Kamala Harris did not resign from her position as vice president nor are there any reports suggesting she would do so.The claim is not mentioned on Harris or the White House’s verified social media accounts or the White House’s official website, which still lists Harris as the vice president. There are no credible news reports suggesting Harris or any other member of the Biden Administration is set to resign.The almost 28-minute video features two unrelated clips and neither of them repeat the purported claim.Check Your Fact has contacted a White House spokesperson for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
The video shows construction equipment, not anti-aircraft guns  being installed across London . The country has donated air defense missiles to Ukraine. The equipment does look similar to concrete placing booms. Check Your Fact found no evidence of anti-aircraft guns being placed in London. Neither the British Ministry of Defense nor the London mayor’s office has released any statements about anti-aircraft guns being installed in London. Misinformation regarding country responses to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict has been widespread since its start in February. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim that a Ukrainian brigade destroyed thousands of Russian troops in Kherson.
There is no evidence that Cruz made this comment “rot in jail.” sbout Garland. The caption is inaccurate. Neither Cruz nor the Justice Department have mentioned any such documents on their verified Twitter accounts or have issued any press releases regarding the alleged exchange. There are likewise no credible news reports suggesting the Texas senator made such a remark about any sitting official. Cruz has previously called for Garland to be impeached as well as Mayorkas, calling their policies an “abuse of power” while also targeting the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken did not state Biden was responsible for the Nord Stream leaks. Neither have blamed anyone as of now for the leaks, though the president has called the issue an “act of sabotage.” The Facebook video’s claim also rested on articles from Zero Hedge and The American Conservative, though neither article states Blinken said Biden was responsible for the leaks, according to The Dispatch Fact Check. Disinformation regarding Russia’s activities outside of the Ukraine-Russia conflict have circulated on social media. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim suggesting two other countries had been conquered by Russia.
There is no evidence Finland has deployed F-35s. Finland’s F-35s will not be combat-ready until 2026, according to media reports.  If Finland had deployed F-35s, media outlets would have covered it, yet none have. The Finnish Defense Forces have not released any statements about deploying F-35s to contain any unknown Russian threats. While Finland has purchased approximately 64 F-35s to replace its current fighter jet fleet, these aircraft will be phased in by 2027, according to Reuters. The Barents Observer reported in May 2022 that the first Finnish F-35s would be based at the Lapland Air Force in Rovaniemi in 2026. 
There is no evidence that Melania Trump and former President Donald Trump  have or are preparing to divorce.No such announcement has appeared on Trump’s website, his Truth Social account or Melania Trump’s Twitter account.Check Your Fact has contacted the Trump office for comment. This piece will be updated if a response is provided. This is not the first time a satirical article has been ciruclated on social media as true. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim suggesting Donald Trump had called his ex-wife Ivana’s death “highly suspicious.”
While the recent Dobbs V. Jackson ruling suggest cases regarding contraception could be heard before the court, no such opinion banning condoms has been issued. This claim is baseless. There are no credible news reports stating that the Supreme Court would be hearing any upcoming cases or has issued any rulings regarding contraceptives.
Check Your Fact also searched recent Supreme Court opinions and orders and did not find any rulings specifically addressing contraceptives or condoms in general. The Supreme Court’s most recent order relates to Yeshiva University and a LGBT+ club on campus, according to NPR.
There is no evidence that DeSantis confronted Hunter Biden in Florida. The videos are not related to either Biden at all. However, the video does not provide any evidence that DeSantis confronted Biden in Florida. There are no credible news reports suggesting the Florida governor confronted either Hunter or Joe Biden. Check Your Fact also looked through DeSantis’s press releases and did not find any statements saying the governor confronted the president’s son.The videos are also irrelevant to the claim. Both clips show DeSantis at the Sept. 8 Heritage Education Freedom Report Card Launch. The first clip shows DeSantis during a Q&A, while the second clip shows him criticizing President Biden’s decision to forgive some student loan debt.
There is no evidence that Cruz made this statement of calling Rep Adam Schiff a “son of a bitch.”. The caption is baseless. Neither Cruz or Schiff have mentioned any exchange on their verified social media accounts or have issued any press releases regarding the alleged exchange. There are no credible news reports suggesting an exchange featuring profanity between the two occurred.The video is also irrelevant to the caption. The video is from a May 2022 press conference regarding the rise in gas prices. Cruz did call out President Biden for not taking responsibility for the issue or other subsequent crises, but at no point does the senator mention Schiff by name or indirectly.
The video shows footage from an open-world military simulator video game and  does not depict actual footage of a Russian boat being sunk hit by an anti-tank guided missile (ATGM). However, the footage actually shows gameplay from ARMA 3, a military-style video game published by Bohemia Interactive. A reverse image search reveals the video first appeared on YouTube July 7 with the title, “Russian patrol boat full of soldiers BLOWN UP by American ATGM – SIMULATING | arma 3; Milsim.” The video’s title identifies the footage from the game, while the Facebook post lacks such a disclaimer.This is not the first time clips from the video game have been misidentified as real war footage. Check Your Fact previously debunked a video in August claiming to show Russian ships being sunk by a Ukrainian drone.
The claim is baseless. There are no credible news reports supporting the claim from the BBC, The Sun, The Times, or other U.K.-based media  about an abandoned newborn was found by police  . The claim also does not appear on the West Yorkshire Police’s website or its social media channels. Now, a Facebook post claims an abandoned newborn was purportedly found by police in Leeds. The post includes two photos of an infant wrapped in a pink blanket lying in a cardboard box. A Facebook keyword search reveals other iterations of the claim, alleging that a newborn had been found by police in Sheffield, England as well as Burbank, Illinois, and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. 
A spokesperson for the U.S. Air Force denied the claim. The U.S. is not testing the “deadliest nuclear bomb.” There are no credible news reports to suggest the U.S. Air Force is conducting such nuclear testing or is planning to follow up on its Minuteman III test. The claim also does not appear on the U.S. Air Force’s website or its verified social media pages. A keyword search generates a 2021 article from The Drive, which repeats the claim that the remaining B-1B Lancers will be upgraded with hypersonic weaponry until the B-21 Raider arrives. While the article does highlight the B-1 did once intend to carry nuclear warheads, it was disabled after the Cold War and is not actively being considered to be reactivated. 
The claim stems from an article published on a satire website. Barrett has not been arrested on any such charges  for conspiring against former President Donald Trump.The claim is false. There are no credible news reports to suggest Barrett was arrested for conspiring against Trump. The claim also does not appear on the Department of Defense’s website, its verified social media pages or on the ARCYBER’s website or the former president’s TRUTH Social account.A keyword search reveals the claim stems from an Aug. 30 article published on the website, Real Raw News. The website’s “About Us” page includes a disclaimer indicating that it contains “humor, parody and satire.”
There is no evidence that the Ukrainians have mass attacked Russia’s entire Black Sea fleet. The Facebook video, viewed more than 8,000 times, claims the Ukrainians destroyed the entire Russian naval fleet. “Huge Hit: Ukraine sank all Russian ships in the black sea,” the post’s caption reads.There is no evidence of a mass attack in the Black Sea. There are no credible news reports suggesting the Russian fleet has been totally destroyed. Neither the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense or Russian Government have released any announcements about the destruction of the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
Check Your Fact found no credible news reports to suggest the Navy JAG plans to resume hangings for prisoners. The claim also does not appear on JAG’s website or on any of its social media pages. No members of the U.S. military or federal government have been executed since 1961, when John A. Bennett was put to death for attempted premeditated murder and death, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. In addition, only four people are listed on the center’s death row database. The U.S. military also uses lethal injection as its primary form of execution, not hanging, according to the center. 
There is no evidence to suggest that Florida has banned “To Kill A Mockingbird.” The Florida Department of Education currently recommends the book for eighth graders. There is no evidence to suggest the book has been banned from Florida schools. Check Your Fact found no credible news reporting about such a development.A Seattle school also dropped the book from its reading list in January, according to Desert News. Bryan Griffin, Republican Flordia Gov. DeSantis’s press secretary, pointed Check Your Fact to a tweet of his where he referred to the viral claim as “false.”
While traces of polio were recently detected in New York wastewater, there is no indication that the virus has been discovered in New York City tap water.The claim is baseless. There are no credible news reports to suggest that polio was found in New York tap water. No such announcement appears on the New York State Department of Health’s website or the department’s verified social media pages. This is not the first time the city of New York has been the subject of health-related misinformation. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim from October 2021 suggesting hospitals were refusing to release newborns to parents unvaccinated against COVID-19.
There is no evidence to suggest a serial killer is loose in Port St. Lucie. The man pictured is an inmate being held in a Tennessee prison, according to an online statement from the Dickson County Sheriff’s Office. The image search also uncovered an article from WSMV that includes the mug shot of the alleged serial killer featured in the post and identifies him as Brandon Odom, an inmate from Dickson County, Tennessee. The Dickson County Sheriff’s Office confirmed on Facebook that Odom is currently in custody despite his photo being used in the viral Facebook post. “This is a real booking photo and this subject is in custody, but for unrelated charges,” reads part of the Aug. 15 post from the sheriff’s office. “The post is making its way outside of Dickson.”
There are no reports of the Ukrainians destroying any Russian warship, besides the Moskva, with Neptune anti-ship  missiles. Ukrainian sources claimed to have damaged a Russian frigate with Neptune missiles in April, but that claim is unverified. This isn’t the first time claims of a Russian ship being hit have circulated on social media. Check Your Fact previously debunked a video from June that claimed to show a Russian warship being sunk by missiles.“The Russian MoD posted a video yesterday showing the Black Sea Fleet’s Admiral Essen frigate allegedly engaging a TB2 UCAV with its Shtil-1 air defense system. The footage didn’t show an impact,” he tweeted.
There is no evidence of  Boris  Johnson being heckled in Greece The original video does not show anyone heckling Johnson. However, there is no evidence such an incident occurred. Through a reverse image search, Check Your Fact found the images shared in the tweet are from a video that was posted on YouTube in August. While the full video features a woman filming Johnson, she does not heckle him. At no point in the video does a man shouts “Get back to work you fat ponce.”Check Your Fact could not find any credible news reports about Johnson being heckled in Greece.
The disease is not curable, according to the Mayo Clinic and the Hepatitis B Foundation. “This viral  claim is false,” Chari Cohen, president of the Hepatitis B. Foundation, said in an email to Check Your Fact. “While there are good treatments that can slow down viral replication and reduce the chance of liver damage and liver cancer, there is no cure yet for hepatitis B.” Cohen added that there are currently dozens of scientists around the world researching a cure and that he is optimistic one will be discovered.
There are no credible news reports to suggest a knife-wielding man is going door to door attacking people in Missouri. The Franklin County sheriff said he had no knowledge of such an incident. The claim is baseless. Check Your Fact searched local news outlets, including the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, KDNL ABC 30, Fox 2, and KSDK, but did not find any credible reports that matched the story shared on Facebook. No mention of such an assailant could be found on the Union Missouri Police Department or Franklin County’s 911 Communications’ social media pages.
The claim is baseless. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports to suggest that the IRS is opening a “sniper school” or is planning to train agents to use firearms. No such announcement about a new site appears on the agency’s website or its verified social media pages. A keyword search of the post reveals it stems from an Aug. 10 article published by Real Raw News. The website includes a disclaimer on its “About Us” page that states, “This website contains humor, parody, and satire.”Check Your Fact has reached out to the IRS for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
There is no evidence to suggest the Israeli military destroyed a Russian submarine. While there is no evidence the two countries have fought each other recently, Russia did allegedly fire on Israeli jets returning from a mission over Syria in May, according to The Times of Israel. The missiles reportedly failed to lock onto the targets and did not present a major danger to the Israeli jets, the outlet reported. Check Your Fact has reached out to the Israeli Ministry of Defense for comment and will update this article if a response is provided.
 No such report appears on CNN’s official website or its verified social media accounts about Russian soldiers running away after a Ukrainian strike. Check Your Fact also found no credible news reports to suggest such a segment ever aired on the network. A reverse image search reveals a template featuring the photo of the anchor has been used to generate a variety of satirical reports in the past. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim in June that used the same image to suggest the network reported on Arizona executing convicted child molesters in “a holocaust-like gas chamber.”
Experts believe Russia has lost a minimum of 5,000 vehicles total, not 5,000 tanks since the beginning of the Russian invasion in February. Ukraine claims to have destroyed fewer than 2,000 Russian tanks.Check Your Fact found no credible news reporting that suggests the Russians have lost 5,000 tanks so far. Misinformation about the conflict in Ukraine has spread rapidly online. Check Your Fact recently debunked a viral Facebook post that alleged the U.S. sent Ukraine fighter jets.
The video shows footage from an open-world military simulator video game and does not depict actual Russian boat being sunk.This is not the first time clips from the video game have been misidentified as real war footage. Check Your Fact previously debunked a video in May claiming to show a Ukrainian drone attacking a Russian armored column. The footage actually shows gameplay from ARMA 3, a military-style video game published by Bohemia Interactive. An internet search reveals the video first appeared on YouTube July 31 with the same title.
While the woman in the photo is the U.S. Air Force’s first female F-35 pilot, there are no credible news reports to suggest she crashed the plane on its first flight. A spokesperson for the U.S. Navy likewise told Check Your Fact the viral Facebook claim was “misinformation” in an email. Check Your Fact has reached out to the U.S. Air Force for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
Wikipedia has not changed the definition of the word. The page has not been revised since February and is partially locked from edits until 2025.The claim is inaccurate. No such edits are present on the page. The current definition of the word reads, “A definition is a statement of the meaning of a term (a word, phrase, or other set of symbols).” The page’s history shows that there have not been any revisions since February 2022 and none of the previous revisions appear to be an attempt to fundamentally redefine the word. A lock symbol appears on the top of the page which means the article is “semi-protected” until November 2025, according to the site.
There is no evidence Canada’s banking system has been or will be shut down. A network issue caused a day-long outage in early July that affected some payment services but the issue has since been fixed. The claim may be related to a day-long telecommunications outage that occurred in Canada on July 8. The Canadian telecommunications company Rogers experienced a “network outage across both wireless and wireline services,” according to a FAQ on its website. The outage briefly caused “problems for payment systems, automated teller machines and phone connections in Canada,” Bloomberg reported.
The image is digitally fabricated. There is no evidence Trudeau made such a remark of limiting his number of sexual partners. The tweet is digitally fabricated. It could not be found on the prime minister’s verified Twitter account or on any of his other verified social media accounts. It also does not appear on PolitiTweet’s archive of his deleted tweets. There are likewise no credible news reports suggesting Trudeau has publicly announced he will be vaccinated against the virus or take any other preventative measures to limit its spread.
Check Your Fact has reached out to both Trudeau’s office and Health Canada for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
There is no evidence suggesting the two countries Russia and Azerbaijan have declared war. There is no evidence war broke out between the two countries. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports suggesting either country has declared war or any troops have been lost in the region.No such announcement of an invasion or military event appears on the Azerbaijan’s Russian Embassy website or on Russia’s Azerbaijan Embassy website. Likewise, Azerbaijan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs website and social media pages do not warn citizens of impending military action in the country by Russian forces.
There is no evidence Trudeau is under investigation for any crime. The claim stems from a satirical website. The tweet’s claim is baseless. There is no mention of such an investigation on Interpol’s website or its verified social media accounts. There are likewise no mentions of any investigation on Trudeau’s website or verified social media. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports about the prime minister being investigated for genocide. Check Your Fact has reached out to both Trudeau’s office and Interpol for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
There is no evidence Ukraine has used HIMARS to attack Crimea. This is not the first time false claims of a strike on Crime have circulated on social media. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim suggesting Ukraine had attacked the Crimean Bridge earlier this month. Ukraine Weapons Tracker, a Twitter account that tracks material lost and captured in the conflict, told Check Your Fact in an email that it was “not aware of HIMARS being used to hit Crimea at any point so far.” (RELATED: Did Ukraine Attack The Crimean Bridge?.
There is no evidence to suggest that first lady Michelle Obama’s mother has died. The claim stems from a satirical website.This claim is inaccurate. Obama’s mother is named Marian Robinson, not “Mary Robinson,” and there is no indication that she has died. There are no credible news reports about her alleged death nor is there any announcement about it on the Office of Barack and Michelle Obama’s website. The Facebook claim appears to stem from a 2019 article published by the satirical website “Obama Trackers.” The site includes a disclaimer that states, “Everything on this website is fiction.”
There is no evidence to suggest any Tim Hortons executive has been arrested for such a crime. The claim stems from a satirical website. The claims are baseless. As previously noted, Schwartz is not the CEO of Tim Hortons but an executive for Restaurant Brands International (RBI), the company that owns the Tim Hortons brand. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports to suggest he was arrested on any criminal charges. There is no statement about his alleged arrest on the Tim Hortons website or the RBI website.Check Your Fact has reached out to RBI for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
There is no evidence to suggest the U.S. military uncovered traces of scopolamine in COVID-19 vaccines. The claim stems from a satirical website. The claim is false. There are no credible news reports suggesting such a drug has been found in any COVID-19 vaccines. There is no mention of such a discovery on the Department of Defense’s website. Similarly, there are no press releases on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) website or social media accounts indicating that any traces of scopolamine were discovered in COVID-19 vaccines.
There is no evidence to suggest that New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s arrest was fake or staged. It was widely reported that Ocasio-Cortez and several other members of Congress were arrested. While there is no evidence that Ocasio-Cortez faked her arrest, some conservatives claimed she faked being handcuffed by placing her hands behind her back, according to Fox News. The congresswoman addressed the claim in a tweet, writing, “No faking here. Putting your hands behind your back is a best practice while detained, handcuffed or not, to avoid escalating charges like resisting arrest.”
There is no evidence to suggest that Tesla made such an announcement. The company previously stated that the only digital currency it accepts is Dogecoin.There is no evidence to suggest that Tesla has created a new electronic currency. No such announcement appears on Tesla’s blog website or on Musk’s Twitter account. There are likewise no credible news reports suggesting the company is planning to or has instituted a new virtual currency for customers. Tesla stated in January 2022 that it would begin to accept the cryptocurrency Dogecoin as payment, according to The Guardian. Currently, Tesla’s website states, “Tesla only accepts Dogecoin. Tesla cannot receive or detect any other digital assets.”
There is no evidence to suggest farming has been banned in the Netherlands. The claim is false. Check Your Fact found no credible news reporting to suggest the Dutch government has decided to ban all farming. There is no mention of an agricultural ban on the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality’s website or on the prime minister’s verified social media accounts.  
The video shows a 2021 explosion on the Afghanistan-Iranian border not an explosion at a power plant in Pakistan.
 At least 20 people were injured in the 2021 explosion and part of the power grid in the region was shut down, according to The Associated Press. The subsequent fire from the incident took three days to bring under control, the outlet reported.  This is not the first time a video of an explosion has been misattributed to a power plant incident. Check Your Fact previously corrected a false claim that a different video allegedly showed a power plant exploding in Ukraine after being hit by a Russian airstrike.
There is no evidence to suggest an earthquake destroyed the Guidestones. Numerous credible news reports state the monument was partially destroyed by an explosion before being demolished by local authorities. The caption’s claim that the stone structure was damaged by an earthquake is incorrect. There are no credible news reports to suggest that an earthquake struck Elbert County, Georgia on July 6.The United States Geological Survey does not show an earthquake striking the area on the day the Guidestones were targeted. The only earthquake detected in Georgia in the last 30 days, as of July 18, was a 2.1 magnitude earthquake that occurred June 20 some 15 kilometers northwest of Grovetown, GA, weeks before the monument was destroyed.
There is no evidence to suggest Holland has died.The claim is baseless. Neither the alleged Twitter account making the claim nor the tweet about the actor’s death could be found on Twitter. None of Holland’s verified social media accounts have released any statement about his alleged death. There are likewise no credible news reports about him dying or suffering from any accident. Holland has yet to commit to reprising his role as Spiderman in the fourth installment of the popular Marvel Studios and Sony franchise, according to Game Rant.
The claim is false. The Vatican has not made any announcement about the alleged death on its website or verified social media accounts. The Catholic News Agency published an article on Monday debunking the viral claim as false, alleging the rumor began with the now-deleted satirical Twitter account. The user behind the account, Italian schoolteacher Tomasso De Benedetti, also spread the same rumor in 2012, according to Business Insider. The former pontiff is 95 years old and was said to be in relatively stable health as recently as April 2022, according to his personal secretary Archbishop Georg Gänswein.  Check Your Fact has reached out to the Holy See for comment and will update this piece accordingly if one is received.
Footage from the event shows Biden placed the medal correctly not backward around Vietnam War .  This claim is false. Check Your Fact reviewed high-definition footage of the ceremony posted on Facebook by the White House that clearly shows Biden placing the medal the correct way around Birdwell’s neck. A video of the entire ceremony on the U.S. Army’s verified YouTube channel also shows the medal was placed correctly. Additionally, a photo on CBS News’ website, as well as another photo on The Associated Press’ website, shows Biden putting the ribbon around Birdwell’s neck with the medal side facing the right way.
While farmers are currently protesting in the Netherlands, the picture featured in the post stems from a 2019 protest not dutch farmers protesting against government regulations. The same image appeared in a 2019 AFP article about the protests at the time. The article explained the farmers blocked off traffic on highways leading to the Hague over government attempts to curb emissions emanating from farmers. The protest caused 280 miles of traffic, the outlet reported. Photos and video footage from the recent Dutch protest can be seen in articles published by ABC News, Euro News and Al-Jazeera. Similar protests in June 2022 did cause large traffic jams in certain cities, according to France 24.
The rumors stem from a satirical website as O’Malley Dillon has not been convicted of any crimes by the U.S, military. The claims are false. None of the Navy JAG Corps’ social media posts or press releases mention O’Malley Dillon or Sussmann facing treason or seditious conspiracy charges. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports suggesting O’Malley Dillon has been charged with any federal crime. There is likewise no evidence that Sussmann, who was recently acquitted on charges of making a false statement to the FBI, has been charged with any such crimes.O’Malley Dillon appeared with Biden during his June 24 speech about the Supreme Court overturning the Roe v. Wade decision, according to Politico.
The footage was filmed in the country of Georgia nearly a year ago and  It is unrelated to recent livestock deaths in the Midwest. The title of the video matches reporting from The Express which claimed in an August 2021 article that hundreds of sheep died in the country of Georgia after a lightning strike. The strike occurred on Aug. 9, 2021 and also knocked a shepherd unconscious, Indian-based news outlet News 18 reported. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports suggesting scores of sheep had recently died in Idaho under mysterious circumstances.This is not the first time misinformation about livestock has spread online. 
There is no evidence that Moscow Airport was hit by a missile attack but  turning it into a “sea of flames.”. The video of the plane on fire used in the alleged report predates the current conflict in Ukraine. The claim is not true. No press releases from Moscow Airport or the Russian Ministry of Defense make reference to an attack at any airport or against any airline flight recently. There are no news reports suggesting an attack against any airport in Moscow took place. A reverse image search revealed the video of the airplane on fire featured in the video is from an Aeroflot plane crash in May 2019.
There is no evidence the couple   Prince Harry And  Meghan Markle is divorcing or is planning to split as they have been seen together recently. The claims in the video are untrue. There are no news reports suggesting the pair have split or that they are planning to do so. Their official website and Instagram posts also do not mention any plans of separation or divorce. Likewise, no such mention of a split appears on the Royal family’s website or social media accounts.
The image shows the former slave and mail carrier Mary Fields, not Tubman posing with a rifle. Fields, who was born into slavery and later became a housekeeper of the Toledo Ursuline Convent, is remembered best for becoming the first black woman to be a star route mail carrier for the U.S. Postal Service, according to Britannica. She carried a rifle and a revolver on her route to fend off potential thieves, History.com reported. While the woman in the photo is not of Tubman, she also carried a pistol during her emancipation trips and a rifle during the Civil War, according to harriettubmanbiography.com, a website run by Tubman biographer Kate Clifford Larson.
There is no record of Orban making such a statement that he does not care about Ukraine because he is Hungarian. A spokesperson for the Hungarian government denied the claim. Hungary has condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and sent at least 37 million euros in aid to the war-torn country, according to Hungary Today. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees have also crossed through Hungary and more than 24,000 have been granted temporary permission to stay in the country, the U.N. reports.
While Orban has pledged to keep Hungary out of the war he has also welcomed Ukrainian refugees and expressed his willingness to help them, according to NBC News.
The image is from January 2016, not January 2021. The national average was above $2 a gallon in January 2021, according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). National gas prices in January 2021 were $2.33 per gallon, according to the EIA. At the time, the lowest recorded gas market in the country was Mississippi, where gas was $2.08 per gallon, Automotive Fleet reported. This is not the first time gas-related misinformation has gone viral. Check Your Fact recently debunked an image of a gas station sign advertising gas for $9 a gallon as well as another image that claimed to show a gas station sign that reads, “Fuck Joe Biden.”
There is no evidence to suggest such a marriage took place  after the country was elected to the U.N. Human Rights Council and the post shows an Islamic religious leader, not a Saudi prince. Saudi Arabia last served on the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2019, according to the organization’s website. The current president of the council is Argentina’s Ambassador to the U.N. Federico Villegas. Saudi Arabia last served on the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2019, according to the organization’s website. The current president of the council is Argentina’s Ambassador to the U.N. Federico Villegas.
There is no evidence such an incident occurred of McDonald’s accidentally distributed condom . The claim stems from a satirical website. In reality, there is no evidence this ever occurred. None of McDonald’s press releases or social media posts mention the accidental distribution of thousands of condoms in Happy Meals. Check Your Fact could not find a single credible news report online about the alleged incident. An internet search reveals the claim stems from an article published by the satirical website CAP News over ten years ago. The website features a disclaimer on the bottom that reads, “ALL MATERIAL IS SATIRE.”
There is no evidence that Kagame deported any Chinese nationals. The claim has been circulating since 2020. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs & International Cooperation would like to inform the public that there has been fake news circulating on various social media platforms stating that 18 Chinese citizens were expelled from Rwanda; no such thing happened,” reads the tweet. “Please ignore.” The Chinese embassy in Rwanda likewise denied the claim in a statement to Africa Check in May 2021, stating it “hasn’t heard about any of the deportation regarding the claim.”
The photo is digitally altered. There is no evidence the Biden administration approved such a plan of approving healthcare card. There is no evidence that the Biden administration announced such a measure. No such announcement could be found on the White House website nor does the Center for Medicaid Services website list any information about a sweeping medical benefits card being provided to all Americans over 25. There are likewise no credible news reports suggesting Biden has signed a bill into law that provides free health insurance to Americans.
There is no evidence Psaki’s net worth is $27 million. A spokesperson for Forbes denied the outlet has estimated her net worth. There is no evidence that Psaki’s net worth is $27 million. Forbes does not appear to have an estimate for her on its website. “Forbes has not estimated the net worth of former White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki,” said Jocelyn Swift, a spokesperson for Forbes, in an email to Check Your Fact. Psaki was, as the image claims, earning approximately $180,000 annually as White House Press Secretary, according to a 2021 annual report to Congress on White House office personnel. The Sun estimates Psaki’s real net worth is between $2 and $2.5 million.
While Chicago has strict gun laws, they are not illegal to own in the city, according to experts. In order to receive a Firearms Owner Identification (FOID), Illinois residents must have a valid driver’s license and must be “eligible,” according to the Illinois State Police website. The website includes a lengthy list of circumstances that would make someone ineligible, including a felony conviction or a mental disability. Bartoli also pointed Check Your Fact to a recent bill signed by Democratic Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker banning “ghost guns” as well as ordinances in Cook County banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.
There is no record of Trudeau wearing such a costume. The image appears to be altered. This is not the first time misinformation has spread online regarding Trudeau’s apparel. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim that Trudeau wore a kilt to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in 2021. In actuality, the photo showed him at the Glengarry Highland Games in Canada. Trudeau announced on May 30 that he would be introducing a bill to place a freeze on all handgun ownership in Canada, according to CNN. “What this means is that it will no longer be possible to buy, sell, transfer or import handguns anywhere in Canada,” Trudeau said during the announcement.
Baldwin is alive and has not been charged with any crime also not put to death by hanging. This rumor stems from a website that claims to publish “humor, parody, and satire.” Santa Fe Sheriff Adan Mendoza told “Today” in April that he did not believe anyone was “off the hook when it comes to criminal charges” related to the October 2021 shooting incident. Despite this, there are no news reports suggesting Baldwin had been arrested or charged in connection with the shooting.The viral Facebook claim appears to stem from a June 2 article published by Real Raw News. The site’s “About Us” page states, “This website contains humor, parody, and satire.”
Experts confirmed hospital staff will try to save the lives of all patients  in an accident regardless of an individual’s organ  donor status. “A donor needs to be on a ventilator and die from brain death or circulatory death” in order to be considered for organ donation, according to the Donor Network of Arizona. The organization notes medical professionals in an emergency room often do not have time to check whether or not someone is an organ donor as they are busy attempting to stabilize the patient.
There is no evidence that Zimbabweans are selling their toes. The claim appears to have originated as a joke. There is no evidence to corroborate the post’s claims. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports suggesting citizens of the country were amputating any body parts for money.BBC News reported the viral claim is a ruse that started with tongue-in-cheek blog posts on the Zimbabwe-based Gambakwe blog. The posts alleged such a trade-in system was taking place at the Ximex mall in Zimbabwe, according to BBC News. The Zimbabwe-based news outlet the DailyNews likewise described the reports as “sick jokes.”
The footage is from a March 2020 shooting at a hospital in Mexico not from Tulsa, Oklahoma. It is unrelated to the recent hospital shooting in Tulsa. Four heavily armed people attempted to enter the hospital in March 2020 allegedly looking to execute an unknown patient, according to Guatemala-based news outlet Prensa Libre. The group was confronted by security outside of the hospital and a firefight ensued, the outlet reported. Mexican media outlets including El Sol de Mexico and Grupo REFORMA also reported on the incident. Both Prensa Libre and Grupo REFORMA included the video featured in the Facebook post in their coverage of the attack.
There is no record of Musk making such a claim about  President Vladimir Putin    failed cancer surgery.In reality, there is no record of Musk revealing any information about Putin’s health. None of the billionaire’s tweets mention Putin being seriously ill. There are likewise no credible news reports about Musk making any statements about Putin’s health. Musk did, however, challenge Putin to a fight in a March 14 tweet. An anonymous Telegram channel with purported inside information claims Putin did undergo cancer surgery in May, according to the New York Post. The claim, however, has not been verified.
While the U.K. has discussed the possibility of helping to end the Russian blockade, a government spokesperson confirmed there are currently no plans to send British warships to the Black Sea. “Putin’s despicable blockade of Odesa is preventing food getting to people who need it,” said a U.K. government spokesperson in an email to Check Your Fact. “We will continue to work intensively with international partners to find ways to resume the export of grain from Ukraine. However, there are no current plans to deploy UK warships to the Black Sea.” Under the Montreux Convention, which regulates maritime traffic in the Black Sea, warships are required to provide 15 days’ notice to the Turkish Government before entry, according to the Turkish government.
There is no evidence that Zelenskyy has purchased the property for $35 million in Florida .. The house is still listed for sale online. After Russia began its invasion in February, the Ukrainian embassy in Britain announced that Zelenskyy had declined a U.S. offer to be evacuated from the capital of Kyiv, CNN reported.This is not the first time Zelesnkyy has been the target of misinformation. Check Your Fact recently debunked a photo purportedly showing a coin with Zelenskyy’s face being sold by the White House.
Goat milk is not a healthy substitute for baby formula, according to medical experts. “Goat’s milk does not have the appropriate nutrition to help babies grow properly,” Yale Pediatric Primary Care Center Medical Director Dr. Maryellen Flaherty-Hewitt told Yale Medicine. She also advised readers not to make their own formula, which she claimed could cause “dangerous electrolyte imbalances.” The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has previously warned about raw milk, stating it can contain a “variety of disease-causing pathogens.” The agency specifically warns that raw dairy products are “particularly unsafe for children.”
There is no evidence to support the claim. Representatives for both BlackRock and Ancestry.com denied the claim. A spokesperson for Ancestry.com likewise denied the claim, telling Check Your Fact in an email that the company has “no relationship” with BlackRock. The spokesperson reiterated the company was majority-owned by Blackstone, not BlackRock. This is not the first time that misinformation has spread online regarding genealogy. Check Your Fact previously debunked a viral 2018 claim that alleged Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren had “less Native American DNA than the average white American.”
Wieber Boer refuted this rumor and there is no evidence he is running for any Nigerian governor . This is not the first time misinformation about Nigeria has spread online. Check Your Fact debunked a claim in October 2020 that alleged Nigeria’s government gave then-U.S. presidential candidate Joe Biden’s campaign $600 million. He added that he was born to Dutch missionaries in Jos, Nigeria, and has spent the past 12 years in the Nigerian city of Lagos. He concluded by stating he is a “staunch believer” in the country’s potential and would support its development “from the sidelines.” His alma mater, Michigan’s Calvin University, recently appointed him to be the school’s next president.
Experts have confirmed that Plan B pills are not included in pregnancy tests. The pill found inside is a moisture-absorbing desiccant tablet. Dr. Christopher Zahn, chief of clinical practice at the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, agreed the viral claim was misinformation. “This claim is false,” said Zahn in a statement to Check Your Fact. “The spread of medical misinformation, myths, and fallacies is harmful for patients.” “Emergency contraception is not included in pregnancy tests,” said Megan Freeland, a Planned Parenthood spokesperson, in an email to Check Your Fact. “It’s important to note that emergency contraception does not end an existing pregnancy.”
Sunscreen protects against skin cancer while excessive sun exposure can cause skin cancer, according to the American Cancer Society and dermatologists. Sunscreens have, on occasion, been subject to recalls for harmful chemicals found within them. In September 2021, the sunscreen company Coppertone issued a recall of multiple aerosol sunscreen sprays due to the presence of the carcinogen benzene, according to an FDA announcement. “Daily exposure to benzene at the levels detected in these affected Coppertone aerosol sunscreen spray products would not be expected to cause adverse health consequences based on generally accepted exposure modeling by numerous regulatory agencies,” the announcement stated.
There is no record of Rogers fighting in the Vietnam  War and kill someone. He was working as the host of “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” through much of the war.Meanwhile, the U.S. entered the Vietnam War in August 1964, according to the History Channel. Not only was Rogers working on the production of his children’s shows at the time, but he was also no longer eligible for the U.S. draft, which conscripted men who were between 18 and 25 years old, according to the Selective Service System website. Rogers was 36 at the time the U.S. entered the war. None of his online biographies mention any sort of military service, though his website states he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2002.
There is no evidence to suggest Steve Harvey has died. Harvey spoke to former radio host and attorney Mo Ivory’s law class at Georgia State University April 25, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The game show host also participated in a live interview with E! News May 9 where he discussed his “fashion evolution” and appeared to be in good spirits. This is not the first time an unfounded death hoax has spread online. Check Your Fact previously debunked viral claims that alleged Joe Rogan and John Cena had died. Check Your Fact has reached out to Harvey’s team for comment and will update this piece if a response is given.
There is no evidence to suggest Johnson has been arrested   by federal agents  and the rumor stems from a satirical website. The rumor appears to stem from a May 6 article published by the Vancouver Times, a website that identifies itself as the “most trusted source for satire on the West Coast.” A satire disclaimer appears at the bottom of the original article. Notably, no such disclaimer is included in the Facebook post.  This is not the first time a rumor about a high-ranking Pfizer official being arrested has circulated on the internet. Check Your Fact debunked a viral claim in November 2021 that alleged Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla had been arrested by the FBI at his home.
There is no record of BBC News publishing such a video of Polish military preparing for an invasion of Ukraine. A BBC News spokesperson said the report did not originate with the news outlet. Poland did raise the combat readiness level of its army in late February, according to Polish-based news outlet Onet. This is not the first time a fake BBC video report regarding the Ukrainian conflict has appeared on social media. Check Your Fact recently debunked a claim that suggested the outlet reported that Ukraine was behind the Kramatorsk train station attack in April 2022.
There is no record of Musk making the statement  that 18-year-olds can take out a $100,000 student loan. The statement is digitally fabricated. None of Musk’s real tweets contain the statement nor do any archived versions of his account show the tweet. There is likewise no trace of the tweet on the website PolitiTweet, which archives the deleted tweets of prominent figures such as Musk.
There is no evidence suggesting Chan died. The post provided no source for the claim.There is no statement about the actor’s alleged death on his website or his verified social media accounts. Check Your Fact found no credible news reports to corroborate the Facebook post’s claim. Chan’s close friend and actor Kenneth Tsang was discovered dead in Hong Kong on April 27, ABC News Australia reported. Both had played roles in the 2001 film “Rush Hour 2,” the outlet reported. Chan tweeted April 28 that he “was so shocked and deeply saddened with the news,” and shared a photo of himself and Tsang.
The photo of  Queen Elizabeth II knighting a cat is digitally altered and fake. The image appears to have been originally shared as an April Fools’ Day joke. The original picture can be found on the website PA Images and shows the queen knighting English actor Simon Russell Beale in 2019. Whoever created the image shared on Facebook appears to have simply swapped the cat in for Beale. This is not the first time misinformation involving Queen Elizabeth has circulated online. Check Your Fact previously debunked a claim from November 2021 suggesting she had died.
There is no record of Musk sending such a tweet. The image is fabricated. There are no news reports suggesting Musk tweeted the derisive statement at Trump or anyone else. The SpaceX CEO was born in South Africa but holds U.S. and Canadian citizenship, according to Deutsche Welle. Musk recently reached an agreement with Twitter to buy the company for $44 billion, according to Reuters. The platform permanently suspended Trump in January 2021, claiming that tweets he posted after the January 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol went against its policies.
The image, taken in 2016, shows a flood that occurred in South Africa following heavy rains. The image also appeared on the City of Johannesburg’s verified Twitter account with a caption that reads, “N3 Buccleuch interchange is flooded in both directions at Linksfield Rd.”Parts of the Gauteng province were hit with severe thunderstorms that produced heavy rain in November 2016, according to South African news outlet News 24. Several roadways were flooded, prompting hundreds of rescues and the deaths of at least six people, Africa News reported.
There is no evidence to suggest a U.S. Navy ship has been attacked by a Russian warship. A Department of Defense (DOD) spokesperson denied the claim.


While Sweden and Finland have expressed interest in joining the partnership, there is no evidence either country has applied for membership. “There is a debate in both Sweden and Finland about possible NATO membership, but neither country has yet submitted a formal application,” a NATO spokesperson told Check Your Fact via email. Russia has warned that if either country joined NATO it would deploy nuclear and hypersonic missiles in the Baltic region near both countries, according to Reuters. The Kremlin has repeatedly called for NATO to cease expanding. Despite this, the Center for Strategic and International Studies speculates that both Sweden and Finland could apply for membership as early as June.
The  viral video is a digital creation. There is no record of such a UFO being spotted in Antarctica.  Kirkegaard’s Instagram also features several other videos of purported UFO sightings that are listed as special effects videos, including one that appears to show a UFO hovering over Palm Springs. There are no credible news reports commenting on the video or verifying the legitimacy of such a recent discovery in Antarctica. Check Your Fact reached out to Kirkegaard for comment and will update this article if a response is provided.
There is no evidence that Lynch has been sentenced or charged with any crime. The claim stems from a website that claims to publish “humor, parody, and satire.” The claim shared on Facebook stems from an April 8 article published by Real Raw News. The article alleges she was found guilty of “treason and murder” and sentenced to death. Real Raw News includes a disclaimer on its website that states, “This website contains humor, parody, and satire.” Check Your Fact recently debunked a false claim made by the same outlet suggesting that Lynch has been arrested by the U.S. military at her North Carolina residence.
Multiple Chinese social media posts have falsely claimed an aerial image of dark discharge flowing from a waterfront building showed Japan's release of treated wastewater from its stricken Fukushima  wastewater release. But the image in fact circulated online in 2021 and shows a pumping station in southern China. Authorities said at the time the station was dumping storm water. Beijing has condemned the plan and banned all seafood imports from Japan, despite reassurances from both Japanese authorities and the UN nuclear watchdog. AFP also found other photos on Chinese app WeChat showing the pumping station from different angles 
Social media users are claiming a video of a gust of wind and water swirling ashore shows Hurricane Idalia making landfall in northwestern Florida's Big Bend region in August 2023 which is false. the footage depicts a waterspout that sprung up months earlier and more than 100 miles away in Clearwater Beach. The Clearwater Police Department shared a similar video on Facebook, saying the waterspout sent two people to the hospital with minor injuries caused by flying debris. AFP has debunked other misinformation about Idalia
A surge of migrants arrived by boat to the Italian island of Lampedusa in September  however  this is false; the clip shows a brawl outside a nightclub in 2021 in Marotta, a town in the Marche region of central Italy. The video showing violence toward Italian law enforcement was amplified amid rising tensions. But despite the claim, the footage was not shot in Lampedusa in 2023, but in another region of Italy in 2021.


An altered and fake image of football superstar Cristiano Ronaldo has surfaced in Facebook posts in Myanmar that falsely claim he converted to Buddhism and became a monk. The Portuguese player has publicly spoken about his Catholic faith and AFP found no credible reports of him converting to Buddhism. The post also says that Ronaldo will donate millions of dollars to monasteries and temples. A reverse image search on Google showed that the photo had been digitally altered, and the original photo shows a well-known Buddhist monk from Myanmar.
Scientists have repeatedly refuted the claim that Covid-19 vaccines can alter a person's genome, but social media posts suggest DNA contamination in the injections could lead to harmful effects such as cancer however this is false. there is no evidence of significant amounts of genetic material in the shots -- and even if there were, experts say they could not alter cells. AFP has debunked several claims that Covid-19 vaccines contain DNA, alter people's genomes and cause cancer.Health Canada previously told AFP that "Covid-19 mRNA vaccines do not include DNA as part of the ingredients."
Social media users are claiming a video shows the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky shaking his body in a tight, sparkly one-piece outfit. This is false; the footage is of a performance given by an Argentine belly dancer and instructor and it appears to have been doctored to superimpose Zelensky's face. But the clip is a misrepresentation. The man in the original footage is Pablo Acosta, whose Instagram account says he is a dancer, teacher and choreographer from Argentina.In another video from 2014 parodying a music video by a Ukrainian boy band, the then-comic can be seen dancing in high heels, a crop top and tight pants, the fact-checking outlet Snopes reported.
Social media posts claim Ukraine has asked the Canadian government to send residents of Ukrainian descent to fight in the war against Russia however This is false; both countries told AFP there is no such recruitment campaign. The post received more than 1,000 likes and 300 shares. It includes an image with a block of Russian text, as well as a photo of people carrying the Canadian and Ukrainian flags. Some Canadians have traveled to Ukraine to volunteer as fighters. But a high-ranking source in Ukraine's Ministry of Defence told AFP the country does not have a recruiting program like the one described in the posts.
Video shows Eid al-Fitr prayers in Moscow, not 'Friday prayers before riots in Paris'. the video was in fact filmed outside a mosque in the Russian capital Moscow, where worshippers gather every year to celebrate Eid al-Fitr. AFP earlier debunked another false claim that the clip shows Muslims praying in "secular France" . The golden- and turquoise-domed Cathedral Mosque, also known as the Moscow Grand Mosque, can host over 10,000 worshippers, but crowds often spill out onto surrounding streets.
Social media posts falsely claim Thai PM 'prepares to legalise casinos and online gambling'. However, a Thai government spokesperson has dismissed the claim as "fake news". Photos seen in the misleading posts were taken from events where he made other announcements.The post has a caption in Thai that voices support for the plan. It has since been shared over 2,500 times.Other posts that also shared the false claim appear to be less supportive of the proposal to "legalise gambling in Thailand".A Facebook post published on September 26 shared another photo of Srettha wearing a suit and yellow necktie.However, a Thai government official has said the prime minister does not have plans to legalise gambling in the country.
Photo of German leader addressing UN falsely portrayed as Sri Lanka president speaking to  empty assembly.speaking to  empty assembly . The pair's participation in the assembly was criticised in Sri Lanka as wasteful spending as the island faces crippling financial struggles. They were also part of a previous government during which the country declared bankruptcy in April 2022.A reverse image search on Google found the photo in an article which said it showed German Chancellor Olaf Scholz -- not Wickremesinghe.The photo, which is credited to German news agency DPA, is captioned: "Chancellor Olaf Scholz speaks in front of almost empty rows of chairs in New York."
The Canadian Armed Forces saw its numbers shrink over the course of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the claim that up to 5,000 members had to leave military service due to vaccine injury is false. A video shared as evidence is misrepresented and the Department of National Defence said there were no departures of service members over vaccine-adverse events. Other versions of the video received tens of thousands more views on Facebook, TikTok and Instagram, with some posing the question whether the purported military losses were part of a plan "so China can take over."
Impostor Facebook page falsely claims senior Ethiopian politicians met in US in 2023. However, this is false: Bekele denied meeting with Lemma in the US, adding the Facebook page behind the post was not his. Furthermore, an old image was used out of context with the claim. The post has been shared more than 180 times and directs users to another Facebook page for further information. The account behind the post uses the name and profile photo of Bekele, who is an opposition figure from Oromia, home to the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia. The post also contains a photo that includes Bekele and Lemma along with other senior Oromo opposition political leaders.
Photo shows a cruise ship built in France, not in Bangladesh. A Bangladeshi official told AFP that the South Asian country had no facility to build such a ship. The false posts circulated online in inflation-hit Pakistan, where social media users suggested that Bangladesh had prospered since it attained independence in 1971. Mike Westwick, a fire information officer for the territorial government, said the video depicts a technique to burn off vegetation and take away fuel from approaching flames. He said prescribed fire is a common way of managing the spread of a wildfire. This action, also known as a backburn, was conducted while weather conditions were less humid, with winds that would not push the fire toward the areas crews were attempting to protect.
Posts falsely claim video of cheetahs was filmed in South Africa and sold for $1 million. the video was filmed in neighbouring Namibia and features conservationist Marlice Van Vuuren showing how cheetahs behave. Her foundation told AFP Fact Check that this clip had never been sold to anyone.The two-minute video shows a woman arriving on a dirtbike and finding herself surrounded by cheetahs. She manages to control the situation and shoo the large cats away.
Video of brown tap water from Oregon, not Ohio.This is false; the footage was taken in the US state of Oregon and is unrelated to the accident.The post includes a clip of running water in a sink, with a narrator commenting on its discoloration. While East Palestine residents have been allowed to return home, many have voiced alarm over health issues, with some reporting headaches and saying they fear they may end up with cancer in several years. Using a reverse image search, AFP found the original footage was published February 16, 2023 on TikTok.
Twitter users falsely claim footage of snow falling on camels in Saudi Arabia shows the first such occurrence in 100 years, proving global warming is a "hoax." This is false; the video is from 2021, and experts say such weather has been reported numerous times in recent years and does not change the scientific consensus on climate change.
region. Such weather is not as rare as the posts suggest: The Saudi Tourism Authority promotes camel rides over snow-covered mountains in the country's north.
Social media users are falsely claiming  a video shows a potentially hazardous smoke cloud in East Palestine, Ohio, where a train derailment in early February 2023 has prompted health and environmental concerns. This is false; the footage of storm clouds was filmed in Portland, Oregon and has circulated since at least November 2022. Residents have expressed concerns about their safety as an odor continues to linger over the town days after authorities lifted an evacuation order, which had been put in place while crews performed a controlled release of the toxic fumes to avert a potential explosion.
Social media videos claim "RNA technology" is added to commercial chicken feed to prevent hens from laying eggs, which in turn is causing US shortages and price increases however this is false. experts say ribonucleic acid (RNA) is present in all living cells and is not a food additive.RNA is a molecule that helps process the genetic information within deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to make proteins. Experts say RNA is naturally occurring and is not added to chicken feed.Producers concerned about their hens should consult "a licensed veterinarian, who can examine the animal(s) and take a detailed medical and diet history," the FDA told AFP.
Northern hemisphere snowfall data do not disprove global warming. This is false; experts say a single month's measurement does not disprove the overall global warming trend, and data show snow extent varies and that cover has decreased.The claim was republished by blogs and shared in posts on Facebook and Twitter, including in French. An article tweeted by Patrick Moore, a prominent climate change denier who has made false claims about his links to Greenpeace, was shared thousands of times on Twitter. But experts say the data do not reflect the trend for average snow extent.
Vehicles cannot operate on water as claimed in 1974 video. However, documents show the car in the video ran on a mixture of water and alcohol and engineers say it is not possible for a motor to be powered by water. Vehicles running on hydrogen do exist, but producing it as fuel generates substantial greenhouse gas emissions. However, the video wrongly describes the technology involved. Several experts consulted by AFP explained that water by itself cannot provide the energy needed to power a car's motor.
Video of rhino charging down a street was filmed in Nepal, not Sri Lanka. The video was in fact taken in a central Nepalese town, which is home to a national park inhabited by rhinos, among other tropical animals. A Google reverse image search using video keyframes found this YouTube clip titled "Rhino runs through village in Nepal" published by Australian news channel Ticker News in August 2022. The video in the misleading posts can be seen from the eight-second mark of the YouTube video.
Old satellite images falsely shared as 'Typhoon Noru in 2022'.However, the satellite images are actually of two different typhoons  one also named Noru in 2017 and Typhoon Trami in 2018. The post was published on September 27, as Typhoon Noru barrelled towards Vietnam's central coast. The storm tore roofs from homes and caused power outages across central Vietnam, with hundreds of thousands of people taking refuge after the storm claimed at least 10 lives in the Philippines. However, the photos were taken years before the 2022 typhoon hit Vietnam.
Social media posts claim the Atlantic Ocean's plankton population has suffered a decimating fall of 90%, citing research from marine biologists But the claim is false. the article which the author described as an "observation think piece" that was never "intended to be peer-reviewed" only covers one part of the ocean, and independent scientists say there is no evidence plankton activity has decreased by such a large margin.The same claim then gathered thousands of likes and shares on social media after Netflix documentary "Seaspiracy" and charity project Save the Reef shared it.
Sky News did not publish article on climate, vaccines.AFP did not find any credible news outlets that published the text in the image -- nor did the social media posts include a link to the purported story. The posts are part of a broader trend in which social media users share manipulated images that co-opt the names and logos of news outlets. AFP has previously debunked similar claims about CNN and the conflicts in Ukraine and Afghanistan.
Posts falsely claim oil 'can regenerate faster than it is depleted'.However, the claim is false. Energy experts told AFP that the natural process of forming oil takes "millions of years" and humans are using it at a rate faster than it can regenerate.AFP has previously debunked the claim that Rockefeller coined the term "fossil fuels" in order to "induce the idea of scarcity" -- the phrase was coined by German chemist Caspar Neumann. "Oil and gas are a limited resource and once used will not be replaced for another few hundred millions of years," Shallcross told AFP via email. 
Video shows storm over the US in 2018, not Pakistan in 2022.But the video -- viewed tens of thousands of times -- has been shared in a false context. It actually shows a microburst over the US state of Arizona in 2018."A time lapse of multiple microbursts falling just north of Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, Arizona on August 23, 2018," the video's description reads.Benne confirmed to AFP he filmed the video in Phoenix in 2018.Benne took a photo that matched scenes from the video, published here by UK photo agency Alamy.
Video shows dam overflowing in southern India, not West Bengal. This is false; the video actually shows another dam overflowing in southern India. The clip was shared here on Facebook on June 18, 2022.It was built in 1961 to divert an adequate quantity of water to the Bhagirathi-Hooghly river system.In 1996, the governments of India and Bangladesh signed a treaty to share the water flow at Farakka from January 1 to May 31 every year for 30 years.People in the video can be heard speaking in the Kannada language, the native language of India's Karnataka state.
Posts shared tens of thousands of times on social media claim to show photos of the Keystone oil pipeline and a lithium mine. However, the images are mislabeled; one shows an oil pipeline in Alaska while the other shows a gold mine. The top image shows what appears to be a metal pipeline running through a verdant forest. The bottom photo shows the parched, red terraces of a deep open-cast mine. A reverse image search reveals the top picture was posted on Flickr, a photo-sharing site, in 2011. The account identifies the __cpLocation as the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.
This is false; the maps were produced years apart by separate Swedish media organisations, which use different colour codes for their weather reports. Thousands of social media users who shared the same image in French claimed it was evidence of a "global warming scam." Similar claims showing the same images have circulated in Hungarian, Polish and Romanian, and the claim has also been widely shared on Twitter.However, the years on the maps are incorrect  the first map was published in late July 2016 and the second in early August 2021.
Video of an Andean condor falsely shared as 'Garuda bird sighting in Indonesia' however The claim is false. The video has circulated in reports about an Andean condor bird released to the wild in Argentina. A Google reverse search of video keyframes extracted using the digital verification tool InVID-WeVerify found a longer footage, uploaded to YouTube here by Argentinian newspaper El Esquiu on March 29, 2014.According to the caption, the footage was taken in Catamarca province on March 28, 2014.  
No evidence that brown paper bags will ward off wasps. But experts say there is no scientific proof that this method will reliably ward off the stinging insects, and recommend calling pest control for help relocating nests from spots that pose a risk to humans. Benson said people should remember that wasps are essential to natural habitats, urging vegetable gardeners to welcome them. Some comments on the posts expressed thanks for an alternative to using pesticide, but Skvarla said hanging a bag is unlikely to be effective, and cautioned that it could actually assist wasps in building a nest.
Health experts dismiss false claim circulating in Indonesia that 'air pollution causes Covid-19'  . However, the claim is false; although the Indonesian government has come under fire from residents for toxic levels of air pollution in the capital Jakarta, health experts told AFP Covid-19 is a disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The footage, which has been viewed more than 18,000 times, shows Indonesian podcaster Ali Ridho Assegaf, popularly known as Babeh Aldo, who has staged anti-vaccine protests in Jakarta.The number of Covid-19 cases in Indonesia has been increasing in the past weeks as the country is recording a surge of Omicron cases.
Posts falsely claim video shows fire-emitting bird that causes forest fires however the claim is false. the video was created by a special-effects artist who told AFP that it is a manipulated footage of a southern lapwing, a bird commonly found in South America. Ornithologists explained that some other birds intentionally spread forest fires by moving burning sticks to flush out prey, but there are no birds that can emit fires.  While some comments on the YouTube video questioned whether the image was genuine, other viewers appeared to believe it was real. 
Seawater is salty not 'because of sperm from blue whales'  as the viral The claim is false. The ocean's salinity — the concentration of salt in seawater — is mainly caused by mineral ions that have dissolved in rainwater. Other causes of salinity include hydrothermal vents on the ocean floor and eruption of underwater volcanoes, according to the US Geological Survey.The post contains two photos. The image on the left-hand side corresponds with this Alamy picture of a gray whale's penis.  Mineral ions — which dissolve in rainwater after it falls on land — are the main cause of ocean salinity.
But the claim is false; the image has been digitally created using computer software and does not show coral  found off the galapagos islands.A reverse image search on Google found the image was originally posted here by a user named Batjorge on the art sharing website, DeviantArt, on August 26, 2017. According to the description uploaded alongside the artwork it was created using 3D fractal creation software called Mandelbulb 3D (MDB3).  Mandelbulb 3D turns linear equations into a range of fractal objects, according to the program’s website. It then renders the objects in three dimensions, allowing “the user fine control over the imaging effects”. 
Social media users dismiss the link between hurricanes and climate change in posts that spread online in the wake of Ida, the latest such storm to hit the United States. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Florida ranks first among all states in the US for the number of hurricanes. And from 1851 to 2004, 110 hurricanes have been recorded in the state. Hurricanes are large and intense storms that form over warm tropical waters, with winds that can extend hundreds of miles from the eye.
No evidence that Putin congratulated Ethiopian PM on the second filling of controversial mega-dam. Ethiopia's construction of the mega-dam has been a source of diplomatic tension with its downstream neighbours. However, this is false; the Russian embassy in Addis Ababa told AFP Fact Check that Putin never made any such comments. Furthermore, there is no official evidence of the Russian head of state issuing a statement regarding the GERD filling.  The post surfaced after the onset of this year’s rainy season, which helped speed up the process of filling the mega-dam. 
A photo has been shared in multiple Twitter and Facebook posts that claim it shows a Chinese shipping vessel dumping human waste in Philippine waters however the claim is false. the photo has in fact circulated in reports about dredging off the coast of Australia. The misleading post circulated online after Philippine news organisation GMA News erroneously published a report showing the same photo and claim. A combination of reverse image and keyword searches on Google found the photo was originally published in this press release on October 3, 2014.
This photo does not show an 'electric car cemetery' in France as the viral claim is false. the image in fact shows a Chinese rideshare company's cars parked on the outskirts of Hangzhou. The company's former manager said most of the cars were first-generation electric vehicles set to be replaced with newer models. However, the claim is false. A reverse image search and keyword searches found similar photos published by Chinese state-owned newspaper People's Daily here on April 25, 2019. The article refers to the photos, credited to Chinese state news agency Chinanews, as "a car cemetery in Hangzhou".
An image has been shared hundreds of times on Facebook in Ethiopia alongside a claim that it shows a real mountain cliff shaped like an elephant. But this is false: AFP Fact Check found that the image was digitally created by Polish artist Mirekis. AFP Fact Check ran a reverse image search and traced the picture to several websites showing Mirekis’s work. The composite comes from a series of images called "Over the precipice", initially posted on Mirekis’s Facebook page on January 18, 2018.  “The series is still missing spring and fall,” the post’s Polish caption reads. 
Posts shared thousands of times on social media say California told its residents not to charge their electric cars because of a power shortage however this is false.  the state has released voluntary energy saving tips that include charging vehicles before an electricity conservation alert is issued, and a spokeswoman for the grid operator denied people were forbidden from charging. “There is no truth in that statement,” Lindsay Buckley, director of communications and external affairs at the California Energy Commission, the state’s energy policy agency, said of the claim.
Facebook posts shared tens of thousands of times warn people in Thailand against eating beef or pork because a recent outbreak of lumpy skin disease, a viral infection in cattle, has spread to pigs however the claim is false. the disease is not transmissible to pigs and there is no risk of humans becoming infected if they eat beef or pork, according to health experts. The posts surfaced online after a lumpy skin disease outbreak in Thailand, which infected thousands of cattle and aggrieved farmers already hit by the pandemic. On June 11, 2021 the Bureau of Disease Control and Veterinary Services said it had recorded more than 51,222 cases of the disease across 47 provinces. 
Facebook posts shared thousands of times warn that four people have died in Thailand after eating meat infected with lumpy skin disease, a viral infection in cattle however the claim is false. Thai authorities told AFP the reports were baseless, and the disease is not transmissible from animals to humans. The post shared photos of cattle suffering from lumpy skin disease, a potentially fatal condition which is spread by insects and causes nodules on the skin.  More than 22,000 cases of the disease had been reported across 43 provinces, an official from the Bureau of Disease Control and Veterinary Services told AFP.
Pelicans do not cool down by pushing spines out of mouths but they are not capable of doing so. experts say that when the birds yawn, the pouch under their beak stretches over their neck, creating the strange visual seen in the images.Kaeli Swift, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Washington, where she teaches about ornithology and wildlife ecology, debunked the claim in a video on her YouTube channel.  Sharon Stiteler, a park ranger who has written books about birds, said via direct message on Twitter: "One of those birds isn't even a pelican."
US government did not block Texas from increasing power output. a spokeswoman for the state’s grid operator called the claim “misinformation,” and documents confirm that the Department of Energy granted a request for more electricity six days before the inaccurate article was published.The frigid air mass that paralyzed parts of the southern and central United States claimed more than 70 lives, left millions temporarily without power and froze water lines. Officials fielded complaints over shockingly large power bills caused by tiered pricing from energy suppliers during the unusual cold weather crisis, which Houston's mayor said was ultimately preventable. 
Posts shared more than 200,000 times on Facebook in February 2021 allege that Germany’s  solar supply failed after snow covered solar panels and wind power  turbines froze however this is false. figures show that the country’s electricity production from these sources experienced no significant decrease, and the photo used to illustrate the claim was taken in Russia. There was no significant drop in electricity generation from renewables in Germany in February 2021, as shown by these charts from the country’s Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems that compare input from various energy sources.
Photo shows helicopter de-icing wind turbine in Sweden, not Texas.But the photo was taken in Sweden years earlier, and although some American politicians have used the blackouts to criticize renewable energy, electricity from fossil fuels accounted for the bulk of the lost production in Texas.Texas has seen the worst power outages of the states affected by the deadly winter storm, with the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which operates much of its power grid, underestimating the surge in demand caused by the unusually cold weather and using planned outages to avert an uncontrolled blackout.
US Federal Election Commission records do not show direct contributions by Buffett to Biden’s 2020 campaign, and his assistant said he did not make any donation of $58 million.Buffett spoke in favor of the pipeline in 2014, saying in a TV interview that he would “vote ‘yes’” on the project. Contrary to the claims in the social media posts, Buffett did not donate to Biden’s 2020 election campaign.Federal Election Commission records show the investor’s most recent personal donations date to 2019. While Biden’s campaign is not listed as a recipient, Buffett did donate to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), which campaigns to elect Democrats to the House of Representatives.
Photos and videos shared with false claims about oceans meeting in Gulf of Alaska.This is false; only one of the images was actually taken in the Gulf of Alaska according to the people who took the original videos and photographs, and oceanographers said none depicts two oceans meeting.The false claim is made with one of three photos or videos, all from different sources. Flickr’s geotagging feature shows that the photograph was taken in the Gulf of Alaska, but the photograph does not show two oceans meeting. Kent titled his Flickr page “Merging Oceans” but explains that he believes what he captured was a photo of fresh water glaciers melting into the saltier ocean.
Rescue operations have entered the third day after flash floods in India's north-eastern state of Sikkim left over 100 people missing, including 22 army personnel. At least 19 people have died, officials said on Thursday night. The massive floods were trigged by a cloudburst over a mountain lake this week. The floods worsened after water was released from a nearby dam into the Teesta river. Hundreds of search and rescue personnel have been deployed across the state and areas near the river remain on high alert. More than 22,000 people have been affected by the floods with many stranded in Lachen and Lachung in northern Sikkim. The floods have disrupted mobile phone coverage in the area.
The BBC has witnessed Chinese vessels blocking Filipino supply boats to an outpost in the South China Sea. The incident took place as two Philippine coast guard ships - one of which the BBC was aboard - and two tiny commercial boats made their way to the Second Thomas Shoal. They were met by a ship marked as the Chinese Coast Guard that was five times bigger than the commercial boats. The encounter between the two sides lasted several hours. Tensions between Manila and Beijing remain high after the Philippines coast guard cut China's barriers in disputed waters last month. Manila resupplies its outpost in the Second Thomas Shoal, in the Spratly Islands, every month to reinforce its economic rights to waters that are both rich in fish and mineral resources.


A Philippines drag queen was arrested on Wednesday over their performance as Jesus Christ reciting the Lord's Prayer. A video of the performance by Pura Luka Vega had sparked criminal complaints by Christian groups in July. The 33-year-old, whose real name is Amadeus Fernando Pagente, faces up to 12 years in jail under the Catholic-majority country's obscenity laws. Nearly 80% of the Philippines identifies as Roman Catholic. Pagente has been charged with the offence of "immoral doctrines, obscene publications and exhibitions and indecent shows", according to a copy of the arrest warrant shared by Manila police. The video features a bearded Pagente dressed as Jesus Christ, performing a rock version of the Lord's Prayer in Tagalog. It has since been deleted.
Scientists have unveiled a sprawling graveyard site of early indians  belonging to one of the world's earliest urban civilisations captured by a drone footage. The BBC's Soutik Biswas delves into the clues the graves might give us about how the early Indians lived and died. In 2019, as scientists embarked on excavating a mound of sandy soil near a remote village in the sparsely populated Kutch region, situated not far from Pakistan in India's western state of Gujarat, they had no inkling of the surprise that lay in store for them. "When we began digging, we thought it was an ancient settlement. Within a week, we realised it was a cemetery," says Rajesh SV, an archaeologist with the University of Kerala, who led the search.
A teenage Afghan refugee drowned while swimming in an English river during the summer heatwave, an inquest heard. Haroon Armani, 18, was with a friend in the River Great Ouse at Cardington Lock in Bedford on Friday 16 June when he got into trouble. A boy and girl dived in to try to find him. Bedfordshire senior coroner Emma Whitting concluded he died of misadventure and said his knowledge of open water was "unknown". The inquest in Ampthill heard Mr Armani had been used to swimming at a pool in a local gym. He was pulled from the water and rushed to hospital, where he died the following morning. The cause of death was recorded as multiple organ failure as a result of drowning.


Indian authorities are racing against time to rescue people after flash floods in the north-eastern state of Sikkim left 102 people missing, including 22 army personnel. Fourteen people are known to have died after a Himalayan glacial lake burst its banks, triggering massive floods. Officials said more than 3,000 tourists had been stranded in different parts of the state. Hundreds of search and rescue personnel have been deployed across the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he spoke to Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang on Wednesday and assured him of all possible support. The state's Lhonak lake breached its embankment on Tuesday night after heavy rain. It led to an alarming rise in water in the Teesta river in Lachen Valley.
More than 120 Indonesians who say Australia wrongly jailed them as adults - when in fact they were children  have settled a major class action suit of  $17m . The government has agreed to pay more than A$27m (£14m,$17m) to the victims, who were jailed and, in some cases, prosecuted as people smugglers. At the time of their detention, some of the children were as young as 12. It is the latest in a string of cases tied to the Australian government's asylum seeker policies. "It's fair to say we're delighted to have gotten this outcome. . . this has been 10 years in the making," said Sam Tierney, one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs. Most of the applicants involved in the class action suit were detained on Christmas Island or in Darwin between 2009 and 2012, after arriving in Australia on people-smuggling boats. 
The cost of a certificate to own a large family car in Singapore has jumped to a fresh record high of S$146,002 ($106,619; £87,684). The city-state introduced the 10-year certificate of entitlement (COE) system in 1990 as an anti-congestion measure. Prospective car owners in Singapore must have a COE in order to be able to purchase a vehicle. They are sold in auctions every two weeks, with the government controlling the number of certificates for sale. With taxes and import duties, the system has made Singapore the most expensive country in the world to buy a car. For example, a new standard Toyota Camry Hybrid costs around S$250,000 in Singapore, which includes the cost of a COE and taxes. That is about six times more expensive than in the US.
Last month, popular Punjabi rapper Shubhneet Singh's forthcoming India tour was cancelled after tensions erupted between India and Canada. The reason was a controversy that broke out over an old social media post where he had shared an incorrect map of India. The Canada-based singer (known to fans as Shubh) was accused of supporting the demand for Khalistan, or a separate Sikh homeland - a sensitive topic in India, which saw a violent insurgency over the movement in the 1980s. Canada has the largest population of Sikhs outside India's Punjab state, and is home to popular Punjabi diaspora musicians who divide their time between the two countries - touring, producing or simply visiting India, where they have a massive fanbase. 
Tuesday's police raids on the homes of prominent journalists in India are an attempt by the government to "muzzle" free speech, campaigners have said. The founder of news website NewsClick was arrested under an anti-terror law as part of an investigation into its funding. Human rights campaigners said the move was a "ruthless crackdown" against independent journalists. Ministers have insisted police are simply doing their job. The co-ordinated raids at 30 locations on Tuesday were some of the largest and most extensive on India's media in recent years. Police later confirmed they had arrested NewsClick's founder Prabir Purkayastha, as well as Amit Chakravarty, NewsClick's head of human resources.
Pakistan has ordered all unauthorised Afghan asylum seekers an estimated 1. 7 million people - to leave the country by November. A spike in attacks along the two countries' border, which Islamabad blames on Afghanistan-based operatives, has escalated tensions this year. It has also fuelled resentment in Islamabad, which on Tuesday announced a crackdown on "illegal" migrants. The Taliban government urged Pakistan to rethink its "unacceptable" move. Afghanistan's rulers have repeatedly denied providing refuge for militants who target Pakistan. Last week, a blast at a mosque in Mastung city, near the border with Afghanistan, killed at least 50 people during a religious celebration. Pakistan's Interior Minister Sarfraz Bugti did not appear to directly reference that and another attack in Balochistan province when he announced the crackdown order on "illegal" Afghans on Tuesday.
The US has announced sanctions on 25 China based firms and individuals allegedly involved in the production of chemicals used to make fentanyl. Fentanyl, a potent opioid used as a painkiller or sedative, plays a major role in the US drug crisis. Attorney General Merrick Garland said the drug's supply chain "often starts with chemical companies in China". China criticised the imposition of sanctions, saying the fentanyl crisis was rooted in the United States itself. "We firmly oppose the United States' sanction and prosecution against Chinese entities and individuals, and the severe infringement of the lawful rights and interests of the relevant enterprises and persons," the Chinese foreign ministry told AFP news agency. "The Chinese government has been strictly cracking down on drug crimes. . . and we deploy the harshest control on precursor chemicals.
A 14-year-old boy has been arrested after two people were killed and five others injured in a shooting at a luxury shopping mall in the centre of Bangkok, police say. The shooting happened at the Siam Paragon, one of the city's most famous shopping centres. The victims were from China and Myanmar, Thailand's police chief said. The suspect, whose motives are unclear - surrendered to officers and had been using a handgun, police said. Five other people - one Lao national, one Chinese and three Thais - were injured. One of the victims was Chinese and the other, who worked at the mall, was Burmese, national police chief Torsak Sukvimol told a news conference. Footage showed shoppers inside the Siam Paragon mall running for the exits after they heard multiple shots being fired.
Police in the Indian capital, Delhi, have raided the homes of prominent journalists and authors in connection with an investigation into the China  funding claims news website NewsClick. NewsClick's founder Prabir Purkayastha and a colleague were arrested. Police also seized laptops and mobile phones. Officials are reportedly investigating allegations that NewsClick got illegal funds from China - a charge it denies. Critics say the move is an intentional attack on press freedom. Started in 2009, NewsClick is an independent news and current affairs website known to be critical of the government. In 2021, it was raided by tax authorities on allegations of breaking India's foreign direct investment rules.
India has asked Canada to withdraw about 40 diplomatic staff from India, reports say, in a sharp escalation of a weeks-long crisis. Those who stayed past 10 October would lose their diplomatic immunity, the Financial Times first reported. Last month, Canada said India may have been behind the killing of a Sikh separatist leader on Canadian soil, which India has denied. An Indian foreign ministry official told the BBC it had no comment to make. Canada has many more diplomats in Delhi than India has in Ottawa, and since this crisis erupted India has asked Canada for parity in its diplomatic missions. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told reporters on Tuesday he was not seeking to escalate the rift with India. "We're going to continue to engage responsibly and constructively with the government of India," he said.
Shares in crisis-hit Chinese real estate giant Evergrande have jumped as trading in the firm resumed after being suspended in Hong Kong. The company halted trading in its shares on Thursday as it confirmed that its billionaire founder was being investigated by authorities. Evergrande shares soared by more than 40% in early trading on Tuesday before closing 28% higher. It defaulted on its debts in 2021, triggering a property crisis in China. The latest share suspension came just a month after the firm's previous 17-month trading halt was lifted. "There is currently no other inside information in relation to the company that needs to be disclosed," Evergrande said in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Monday, when the city's market was closed for the National Day holiday.
A man's family say they have been left desperate for answers after he died on holiday in Vietnam. Darren Blair's family were told the 31-year-old had been found unresponsive after being asleep in a nightclub for six hours on 26 September. But they said they were also told he was found unconscious outside the nightclub and his death certificate mentioned bruises on his face. His brother and sister have flown to Vietnam to try to find out more. Mr Blair's family, from Nottingham, told the Press Association news agency he had been on holiday before starting work on a production of Disney on Ice in Vietnam.
Eight members of an organ trafficking ring in north-east Pakistan have been arrested, police say. The ring's alleged leader, Fawad Mukhtar, is accused of extracting the kidneys of more than 300 people and transplanting them into rich clients. He had previously been arrested five times for malpractice, but managed to secure bail each time. At least three people died from having their organs harvested in this way, authorities said. The gang was believed to be operating across eastern Punjab province, as well as in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. The transplants were carried out in private homes - often without the patient knowing, the chief minister of Punjab province Mohsin Naqvi said. A car mechanic is said to have worked as Mr Mukhtar's surgical assistant and helped lure vulnerable patients from hospitals.
More than 300 people are seeking compensation for being sexually abused by Japan's top talent agent, the late Johnny Kitagawa, his agency says. Allegations against Kitagawa, who died in 2019, came into prominence again after a BBC documentary inspired more victims to come forward. In September, an independent inquiry concluded that the music mogul had abused hundreds of boys and young men over a six-decade career. It also urged compensation for victims. The Johnny & Associates agency on Monday revealed 478 people had responded to a website it had set up for recompense- 325 of whom were seeking compensation as victims. The agency said 150 of these people were former talents. The pop agency renamed itself -SMILE-UP- and said the newly named entity would deal solely with identifying and compensating victims. A new company will be created to manage the talent.
Indonesia has inaugurated its first high-speed railway, a $7. 3bn (£5. 9bn) project backed by China under its Belt and Road Initiative. President Joko Widodo launched the service, which connects the capital Jakarta to Bandung, a top economic hub. The railway is named Whoosh, a Bahasa Indonesia acronym that translates to time-saving and reliable. Mr Widodo has prioritised projects like Whoosh to ease the country's severe traffic jams. The railway was originally scheduled to open in 2019 but was delayed due to land disputes, the Covid-19 pandemic and a $1. 2bn budget overrun. Monday's inauguration was pushed back from Sunday to accommodate the president's schedule.
India has complained to the Foreign Office after a top diplomat was confronted by protesters at a gurdwara in Glasgow. The High Commission of India said Vikram Doraiswami had been invited to the place of worship to discuss community and consular issues. But he left after he was confronted by a small number of activists on Friday. A Sikh youth group later claimed there was a longstanding ban on Indian officials visiting gurdwaras. The confrontation follows an international row over suggestions Indian agents may be linked to the murder of a Sikh separatist in Canada.
New Homes for refugees, extra housing pods for the homeless and more affordable homes are among projects being under way at Cornwall Council. The developments will use a £2. 6m grant being secured from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Councillors say the funding will support the purchase of 20 homes to provide housing for Afghanistan refugees and temporary accommodation. The projects are detailed in a report to be heard by a committee in October. The council's portfolio holder for housing and planning, Olly Monk, said Cornwall has "insufficient variety and types of accommodation for some of our most vulnerable residents", reports the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
A pro-China candidate has won presidential elections in the Maldives, defeating an incumbent who had strengthened relations with India. President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih accepted defeat in the run-off poll, congratulating his rival Mohamed Muizzu who won 54% of the vote. Mr Muizzu, mayor of the capital Male, campaigned with the slogan "India out". Mr Solih will serve as caretaker president until his successor is inaugurated on 17 November. In power since 2018, the 61 year old from the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) strengthened relations with India, with which Male has strong cultural and financial ties. He called it an "India-first" policy.
The organisers of a city's first Ratha Yatra festival have said they want it to be "an example of inclusivity all over the world". The Festival of Chariots has taken place in New Square Park, Cambridge. Organisers said about 600 people saw the parade and hope that next years will be bigger and better. Sushant Jeurkar said 100 volunteers had made the day possible with the aim to create a day that helps to foster a "united feeling". The Festival of Chariots, also known as Ratha Yatra, typically features three chariots, however organiser Mr Jeurkar said the streets of Cambridge were not wide enough for them all.
More than 50 people have been killed and dozens injured in a suicide attack in Balochistan  Pakistan, police say. The blast happened near a mosque in the south-western Balochistan province on Friday as people gathered to celebrate the birth of the Prophet Muhammad. Officials in Balochistan have declared a state of emergency. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack. Meanwhile, at least five people died in a separate blast at a mosque near Peshawar City in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Footage from the scene in the Baloch city of Mastung showed injured people being rescued by emergency responders and locals. "Bodies were lying on top of one another," said Saifullah, a local journalist in his 40s. "The crowd was waiting for a [celebratory] procession to begin.
The Philippines has stood by its removal of China's barriers in the South China Sea and said it will continue defending its territory. Beijing has protested the removal of the buoys, heightening a long-running dispute over the Scarborough Shoal. "They just can't put barriers in an area that is clearly inside the Philippines," President Ferdinand Marcos Jr said. Mr Marcos said the Philippines is "not looking for trouble". The Scarborough Shoal is one of several reefs and outcrops in the South China Sea that are claimed by both the Philippines and China. China's coast guard has maintained a steady presence in the area since the end of a naval standoff in 2012 and its encounters with Filipino fishing vessels have been a constant source of friction with the Philippines.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said his country is serious about building closer ties with India despite an ongoing diplomatic row. His latest remarks come at a time when ties between the two countries are at an all time low. Tensions flared up when Mr Trudeau on 19 September said Canada was investigating credible allegations of India's involvement in the murder of a Sikh separatist leader. Delhi dismissed the claim as "absurd". Hardeep Singh Nijjar was murdered outside a temple in Canada in June. On Thursday, the Canadian PM said it was extremely important to "constructively and seriously" engage with India. "India is a growing economic power and important geopolitical player. And as we presented our Indo-Pacific strategy just last year, we're very serious about building closer ties with India," the National Post quoted him as saying.
A video showing a young girl walking around seeking help after being raped has sparked anger in India. Many people expressed outrage after CCTV footage showed a man appearing to wave the girl away when she approaches him. But police told local media that the girl, who walked around Ujjain city in Madhya Pradesh state for more than two hours, was helped by some people. A senior police official said a medical examination showed the girl was raped. Two men, both tuk-tuk drivers, were arrested on Thursday after police reviewed CCTV footage. Four others have been detained. According to the police complaint, the girl is 15 years old. Ujjain police superintendent Sachin Sharma told ANI news agency on Thursday that the girl was "incoherent and could not initially give any details about her whereabouts".
US soldier Travis King is undergoing physical examinations at a base in Texas after being expelled by North Korea following a two-month detention. The tests aim to "assess his emotional and mental health," a Pentagon official said on Thursday, hours after he was seen landing in San Antonio. The 23-year-old reconnaissance specialist illegally crossed into North Korea from South Korea in July. Officials have not said what punishment or disciplinary action he may face. Pvt King was seen landing at the Lackland Air Force Base at 01:30 eastern time (05:30 GMT) before being taken to the Brooke Army Medical Center. Video showed him walking off the plane and speaking to people on the tarmac.
Four of six women rescued from the back of a lorry in France on Wednesday must leave the country within 30 days, a French public prosecutor said. The four Vietnamese and two Iraqi women were found by police after getting into the lorry, which they believed was heading for the UK. One of the women spoke from inside the vehicle to a BBC journalist, who then contacted French police. It is unclear which of the four women are to be deported. The other two have been authorised to stay in France pending asylum requests, a statement from the prosecutor said. The women got into the lorry thinking the Irish-registered vehicle would likely transport them to England, Laetitia Francart, public prosecutor at the judicial court of Villefranche-sur-Saône said.
Evergrande's chairman Hui Ka Yan has been put under police surveillance as the problems for the Chinese property giant mount. Evergrande said its shares would remain suspended until further notice. It marks another low for the heavily indebted property giant which defaulted in 2021, triggering China's current real estate market crisis. In August, it filed for bankruptcy in the US in a bid to protect its American assets as it worked on a deal. In a statement on Thursday, Evergrande said Mr Hui "has been subject to mandatory measures in accordance with the law due to suspicion of illegal crimes", without giving any further detail. The latest share suspension comes just a month after the firm's previous 17-month suspension was lifted. Evergrande - once the world's most valuable property developer - is at the centre of a real estate crisis threatening the world's second largest economy.


Taiwan has unveiled its first domestically-made submarine as it bolsters its defences against a possible Chinese attack. President Tsai Ing-wen presided over the launch ceremony in the port city of Kaohsiung on Thursday. US officials have warned that China could be militarily capable of mounting an invasion within the next few years. Taiwan is a self-governing island which China regards as a renegade province and has vowed to reclaim one day. Most observers believe China will not attack the island imminently, and Beijing has said it seeks peaceful "reunification" with Taiwan. But at the same time it has warned against Taiwan formally declaring independence and any foreign support. It has increasingly sought to put pressure on the island with its military drills in the Taiwan Strait, including several conducted this month.
Nearly 1,000 people have died of dengue in Bangladesh this year, in what authorities say is the country's most severe outbreak of the disease yet. Extraordinarily wet monsoons have made it easier for mosquitoes that carry the dengue virus to breed in dirty and stagnant water. Officials have struggled to contain the spread of the disease and hospitals have been critically overwhelmed. In severe cases, dengue causes internal bleeding which can lead to death. Its symptoms include headaches, nausea, joint and muscle pain.
One of Vietnam's best-known climate activists has been sentenced to three years in prison over tax evasion. Hoang Thi Minh Hong is the fifth Vietnamese activist to be jailed over the charge. Campaigners say it is part of a state-authorised move to silence criticism of the country's climate policies. Hoang Thi Minh Hong was convicted on Thursday in Ho Chi Minh City in a trial that lasted just three hours. She was also fined $4,100 (£3,380). Human rights groups say this was a preordained outcome to a politically-driven case. They point out that activists have been treated more severely than other people held on tax evasion charges, being detained and denied access to lawyers. NGOs in Vietnam have long existed in a legal "grey zone", where there are no specific requirements for them to pay tax on donations from overseas.
A Sri Lankan cricketer accused of raping a woman while in Australia for the T20 World Cup has been found not guilty. Danushka Gunathilaka, 32, was accused of assaulting the Sydney woman at her home after a Tinder date in November. Initially he was charged with multiple counts of rape, but only one count of stealthing - removing a condom without consent - proceeded to trial. The case tested new laws criminalising the act in New South Wales (NSW). During a four-day trial in a NSW District Court, the complainant - who legally cannot be named - said she had only consented to protected sex. She said she did not see the batsman remove the condom, but saw it on the floor shortly after the intercourse ended. She further alleged Mr Gunathilaka had kissed her "forcefully" and at times choked her so hard she feared for her life.
US soldier Travis King, who fled from South to North Korea in July, is in US custody after being expelled by Pyongyang North Korea, officials say. Pvt King was transferred into US custody in China before being flown to a US military installation. The 23-year-old reconnaissance specialist illegally crossed into North Korea in July. North Korean media said he had fled because of "inhuman treatment" and racism within the US military. A senior administration official said on Wednesday that after months of "intense diplomacy" Pvt King had been returned to US hands and had spoken to his family. "We can confirm Pvt King is very happy to be on his way home, and he is very much looking forward to reuniting with his family," the official said.
India is open to looking into any "specific" information  Canada provides on the killing of a Sikh separatist leader as an evidence, the country's foreign minister said. S Jaishankar was referring to the murder of Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Canada in June. Tensions flared up after Canada recently said it was investigating "credible allegations" linking the Indian state with the murder. India dismissed the claim as "absurd". Mr Jaishankar said that the Indian government had told Canada that it was open to investigating any "relevant" allegations about the murder while insisting that Delhi had no role in it. He was speaking at an event in New York ahead of his address at the UN General Assembly on Tuesday. "One, we told the Canadians that this extrajudicial killings is not the government of India's policy," he said. "Two, we told the Canadians saying that look, if you have something specific, if you have something relevant, you know, let us know - we are open to looking at it. "
The deadly bombing of an Air India flight in 1985 is back in the news after relations between India and Canada hit a new low. Last week, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said his country was investigating "credible allegations" that could link the Indian government to the murder of a Sikh separatist leader in British Columbia. India has denied the allegations, calling them "absurd". Since then, several commentators in India have brought up the 1985 attack - also known as the "Kanishka bombing" because the Boeing 747 was named after the Emperor Kanishka - which also strained Delhi-Ottawa ties.
One of Thailand's most prominent political activists, Arnon Nampa, has been sentenced to four years in prison under the country's much-criticised royal defamation, or lese-majeste law. He was convicted by a court in Bangkok over comments he made during a protest in October 2020. Thailand's lese-majeste law forbids anyone from insulting the monarchy on pain of harsh jail sentences. It has been increasingly enforced since the military took power in a 2014 coup. Mr Arnon, a human rights lawyer, was the first activist to call publicly for a national conversation on the role of the monarchy in today's Thailand. The verdict follows months of public discussion of the law after the general election in May, in which the progressive Move Forward party defied expectations by winning the largest number of votes and seats in parliament on a platform of sweeping reform, including a demand that the lese-majeste law be amended.
The captain of a cruise ship which collided with a small tour boat on the River Danube in Budapest, killing 28 people, has been jailed for five years. During a rainstorm in May 2019, the Mermaid, carrying South Korean tourists, sank within seconds of the crash. The Ukrainian captain of the Vikyn Sigyn cruise ship, Yuri Chaplinsky, denied wrongdoing but was found guilty of gross negligence. Chaplinsky is expected to appeal. The disaster was the worst in 30 years on the Danube, Europe's second-longest river. Hungarian prosecutors told a court on in March 2020 that Chaplinsky had failed to pay sufficient attention and had not properly focused on steering the ship for several minutes during the downpour. "He did not sense the Mermaid's presence, did not radio or send out emergency sound signals," Miklos Novaki told the court.
Shares in China's Evergrande have slip as the crisis at the embattled property developer has deepened and  misses payment. Its mainland unit Hengda Real Estate has defaulted on 4 billion yuan (£449m; $547m) of debt, it revealed on Monday. Beijing-based news outlet Caixin has also reported that several current and former Evergrande executives have been detained by authorities. Former chief executive Xia Haijun and an ex-finance boss Pan Darong were among those held, Caixin said. The BBC has been unable to independently confirm Caixin's reporting. Evergrande did not immediately respond to a request for comment from the BBC. Its share price fall on Tuesday followed an even sharper decline the previous day. Evergrande's stock has fallen by more than 25% this week.
A row has broken out after the founder of popular photo blog Humans of New York criticised a similar Indian platform's take on copyright. Humans of Bombay, which follows the same format as Brandon Stanton's New York blog, started in Mumbai in 2014. It recently filed a suit against People of India, which started a few years later, of copyright infringement. All three tell stories of people in the form of interviews or posts alongside their photos. Earlier this month, Humans of Bombay (HOB) filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court saying People of India (POI) was an "identical portal/service" which had "replicated a large number of images and videos" from its platform. People of India has been summoned for a hearing on 11 October. Founded by Drishti Saxena in 2019, POI has over two million followers on social media. In the court documents, HOB has shared screengrabs of People of India's posts alleging that they were almost exactly like its own.

While India waits for the Supreme Court's verdict on legalising same-sex marriage, an LGBTQ couple's recent wedding in the northern state of Punjab has made headlines - and also created controversy. Dimple, 27 - who uses the pronoun he - and Manisha, 21, married in Bathinda city on 18 September with the blessings of their families - something that's highly unusual in a conservative country like India. But what was even more unusual was that their marriage was solemnised in a gurdwara - a Sikh temple - with the bride and groom performing all traditional rituals. The wedding has been criticised by some religious leaders, including Sikhism's highest priest Giani Raghbir Singh who declared that "same-sex marriage was unnatural and contrary to Sikh ethics".


The president of South Korea will pay a state visit to the UK in November after accepting an invitation from King Charles III. The King and Queen Camilla will host Yoon Suk Yeol and his wife Kim Keon Hee at Buckingham Palace. It will be the second incoming state visit of the King's reign, following South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa's stay last year. The King and Queen have just returned from a three-day state visit to France. Mr Yoon, 62, visited the US in April when he sang a verse of Don McLean's American Pie - one of his favourite songs - at a White House dinner at the request of President Joe Biden. He received rapturous applause from the audience before the US president presented him with a guitar signed by McLean.
The Philippines says it has removed a floating barrier installed by China to block Philippine fishing boats entering a contested area in the South China Sea. The Philippines coast guard said it had been instructed to do so by President Ferdinand Marcos Junior. Manila says China violated its fishing rights with the 300m (1,000ft) barrier in the Scarborough Shoal. China claims more than 90% of the South China Sea and seized the shoal in 2012. Beijing defended the actions of its coastguard, stating they were "necessary measures". "The barrier posed a hazard to navigation, a clear violation of international law. It also hinders the conduct of fishing and livelihood activities of Filipino fisherfolk," the Philippines coast guard said in a statement.
Police in Thailand have charged a man with beating to death his two-year-old daughter and his two infant sons. They suspect Songsak Songsaeng also killed two other infant sons from a previous marriage. The charges follow the discovery last week of the body of a two-year-old girl buried beneath a kitchen floor. Police say Mr Songsak claims to have a history of mental illness - and that he killed his children because he couldn't tolerate the sound of their crying. His wife has also been charged over the death of their two-year-old daughter. And his ex-wife has been charged over the deaths of the two boys. All three have been arrested. Mr Songsak has been married four times. Police were first alerted to a possible case of domestic violence at the Bang Khen district in Bangkok earlier this month. 
Chances of India's Moon lander waking up after a freezing cold lunar night are "dimming with each passing hour", space scientists from the country have told the BBC. But they said that they would keep trying until the end of the lunar day. A day and night on the Moon each last just over 14 Earth days. On Friday, space agency Isro said it was trying to contact the lander and rover after a new lunar day began, but had not received any signals. The lander called Vikram, carrying the Pragyaan rover in its belly, touched down near the Moon's little-explored south pole in August. They spent two weeks gathering data and images, after which they were put into 'sleep mode' at lunar nightfall. The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) had said that it hoped the batteries would recharge and the modules would reawaken when the lunar Sun rose around 22 September.
A prominent Uyghur academic scholar  has been reportedly jailed for life by China for "endangering state security". Rahile Dawut's sentence was confirmed after she appealed against a 2018 conviction, according to the US-based Dui Hua Foundation rights group. The 57-year-old professor lost her appeal this month. China has been accused of crimes against humanity against the Uyghur population and other mostly-Muslim ethnic groups in Xinjiang. Human rights groups believe China has detained more than one million Uyghurs against their will over the past few years in a large network of what the state calls "re-education camps". It has sentenced hundreds of thousands to prison terms. "The sentencing of Professor Rahile Dawut is a cruel tragedy, a great loss for the Uyghur people, and for all who treasure academic freedom," said John Kamm, executive director of the Dui Hua Foundation.
Three Indian martial arts athletes have been seemingly caught up in a row about visas between India-China over a long-standing border dispute. The women are from the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh - which China claims as its own territory. They are in a group due to compete in the Asian Games, which open in the Chinese city of Hangzhou on Saturday. But India said they were prevented from travelling and accused Beijing of denying them the proper accreditation. China has denied this, saying all athletes with legal documents are welcome. According to Indian media, the three wushu athletes - Nyeman Wangsu, Onilu Tega and Mepung Lamgu - were left behind after their documents could not be downloaded. None of the team's other members reportedly experienced any problems. In a statement, India's foreign ministry said China had "discriminated" against the athletes in a "targeted and pre-meditated manner".
India's space agency Isro says it is trying to contact its Moon lander and rover as a new lunar day begins, but has not received any signals so far. The lander, carrying the rover in its belly, touched down near the Moon's little-explored south pole in August. They spent two weeks gathering data and images, after which they were put into 'sleep mode' at lunar nightfall. Isro hoped the batteries would recharge and the modules would reawaken when the Sun rose around 22 September. But it is possible that the extreme cold of the lunar night damaged the batteries. On Friday, Isro posted on X (formerly Twitter) that "efforts to establish communication with the Vikram lander and Pragyaan rover will continue". India made history with its Chandrayaan-3 mission when it became the first country to successfully land a spacecraft near the lunar south pole.


New images of Sara Sharif have been released by Surrey Police as part of an ongoing investigation. The 10-year-old's body was found at her home in Woking on 10 August. Her father, stepmother and uncle appeared at the Old Bailey earlier this week and were told they would face a murder trial next autumn. "The photos present Sara in the way we believe she may have dressed in the months prior to her death," police said. "We are hoping that these images will prompt more people to come forward with information about her and her family. " Both images are believed to have been taken in the past year, police said.
The South Korean star Suga, a member of the phenomenally successful boy band BTS, has begun his mandatory military service, he confirmed on social media. The singer, whose real name is Min Yoon-gi, is the third member of the band to enlist, after Jin and J-Hope. "I will faithfully complete my duty and come back," he posted online. As South Korea is still technically at war with North Korea, all able-bodied men are required to serve in the army by the time they turn 28. For a long time, it was rumoured that the government might allow the members of BTS to skip the service, on the basis they had already served their country by bringing in billions of dollars, and it would be more beneficial to allow them to carry on doing so. But last October, all seven member announced they were all planning to enlist, with Jin, as the oldest, going first.
A leading activist in China's MeToo movement has gone on trial for subversion, according to campaigners. Journalist Sophia Huang Xueqin appeared in court in the southern city of Guangzhou on Friday with her co-accused, labour campaigner Wang Jianbing. The two were detained in 2021 as part of China's wide crackdown on activists. Rights groups have raised concern over their condition while in detention. Ms Huang, 35, had been sleep deprived and malnourished, a friend told news website Radio Free Asia. Friday's hearing proceeded under heavy guard, with authorities surrounding the court house with a fence, said the spokesperson of a group that is campaigning for their freedom. "There's a very heavy police presence around the court today because of the trial," said the spokesperson, who asked not to be named and is also a friend of Ms Huang and Mr Wang.
A massive teachers' strike in Nepal has entered its third day, disrupting classes for millions of students across all public schools. About 110,000 teachers are protesting an education reform bill in parliament. They are against proposals to give local governments oversight of schools and a ban on teachers joining groups with political affiliations. On Thursday, scores of protesters marched towards the parliament building in the capital, Kathmandu. Anti-riot police armed with sticks pushed pack as the protesters tried to push past a steel barricade. Students and parents are calling for an end to the unrest so that classes can resume. "How can my own teachers play against my future? " said 16-year-old Simran Bhatta Acharya, who is preparing for national examinations.
The Indian parliament has passed a bill that guarantees a third of seats for women in the lower house of parliament and state assemblies. But the country is a long way away from seeing more women elected to its legislatures soon since it will be implemented only after India completes the next census and an exercise to redraw the boundaries of constituencies - the complicated processes are expected to take several years. On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha, or the lower house of parliament, approved the Nari Shakti Vandan Adhiniyam (which loosely translates from Hindi to Saluting Women Power Act) almost unanimously - with 454 of the 456 MPs present voting in favour. On Thursday, the upper house, or the Rajya Sabha, debated the bill and passed it unanimously. It now requires the president's signature, but analysts say that is a mere formality and the bill is "tantalisingly close" to becoming law. 
Hong Kong police are investigating allegations of fraud against cryptocurrency trading platform JPEX after investors complained of HK$1. 3bn ($166m; £134m) in losses. Eleven people, including popular influencers, were arrested this week after complaints filed by 2,000 people. The case could be one of Hong Kong's biggest fraud cases, local media say. It also tests new financial regulations as Hong Kong positions itself as a global hub for virtual assets.Last week, Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) revealed the Dubai-based JPEX had been operating without a license for virtual asset trading. The platform, on the other hand, said it had "strived to comply" with the local requirement which took effect in June this year, but its efforts were "dismissed or sidestepped with official rhetoric" by the Commission.
South Korea has passed a new law to better protect school teachers from bullying and complaining parents. Teachers nationwide have been protesting for nine weeks, demanding more rights in the classroom. They say they are frequently harassed by parents who sometimes maliciously report them for child abuse, to see them removed from their jobs. Some say they have been reported for restraining a violent child, or criticised for telling a pupil off. The teachers accused parents of exploiting a child welfare law, passed in 2014, which dictates that teachers accused of child abuse are automatically suspended. Under the new legislation, called the Teacher Rights Restoration Bill, teachers will not be immediately removed following a report of child abuse; further investigation and evidence will be required. Financial support will also be made available to teachers fighting lawsuits, and there will be more responsibility on head teachers to protect their staff.
Toshiba, one of Japan's oldest and biggest firms, is set to end its 74 year stock market history as a group of investors have bought a majority stake. The company has announced that a consortium led by private equity firm Japan Industrial Partners (JIP) has purchased 78. 65% of its shares. Owning more than two-thirds of the firm allows the group to complete a $14bn (£11. 4bn) deal to take it private. The firm's roots date back to 1875, as a maker of telegraph equipment. Under the deal its shares could be taken off the stock market as early as the end of this year. The company "will now take a major step toward a new future with a new shareholder," Toshiba's president and chief executive officer, Taro Shimada, said in a statement. Toshiba's shares started trading in May 1949 when the Tokyo Stock Exchange reopened as Japan emerged from the ravages of World War Two (WW2).
An indian man , Ravindran was 14 years old when his father Srinivasan, who ran a photography studio, sent him on an assignment of photographing dead bodies . "My job was to put a dead body on a chair and make it sit straight," says Ravindran about his first day at work in 1972. "I then had to lift its eyelids so the photographer could take a picture. " Richard Kennedy was just nine when he had a similarly unnerving experience. He was asked to hold up a white cloth as a backdrop behind a chair on which a corpse was seated. "I was scared and shaking. That night, I couldn't sleep at all," he told the BBC. "For many nights, I had a recurring nightmare in which the dead person appeared. It was dreadful. " Both men became photographers because their fathers owned photo studios. Between them, they have taken photos of more than 1,000 dead people.
India has warned its citizens travelling to or living in Canada to "exercise utmost caution". The advisory comes a day after tensions escalated between the countries with each expelling a diplomat from the other side. Canada said it was investigating "credible allegations" linking the Indian state with the killing of a Sikh separatist leader. India strongly denied this, calling the allegations "absurd". Analysts say relations between the countries, which have been strained for months, are now at an all-time low. On Wednesday, India's foreign ministry said it issued the advisory "in view of growing anti-India activities and politically-condoned hate crimes and criminal violence in Canada".
An Indonesian court has sentenced a woman to two years in jail for posting a viral TikTok video where she said an Islamic phrase before eating pork . Lina Lutfiawati, 33, was found guilty of "inciting hatred" against religious individuals and groups. She also faces a $16,245 (£13,155) fine. Her jail term may be extended by three months if she does not pay up. It is the latest in a series of cases involving controversial blasphemy laws in Muslim-majority Indonesia. Lina Lutfiawati, who adopted the Indian name Lina Mukherjee due to her love of Bollywood movies, identifies as Muslim. The consumption of pork is strictly forbidden in Islam. The lifestyle influencer, who has more than two million TikTok followers, also runs a business in India. In March, she posted a video where she uttered "Bismillah" - an Arabic phrase that means "in the name of God" - before eating crispy pork skin.
Beijing has told foreign consulates in Hong Kong to hand over the personal details of all locally hired staff. Local media reported that a letter from the city arm of China's Foreign Ministry asked for the data to be submitted by 18 October. The requirements apply to all foreign missions' local employees, including permanent residents and non-permanent residents in the financial hub. The move is in line with "international practice", the foreign ministry said. It would also bring rules in Hong Kong in line with those on the mainland. "The Chinese side has been managing the affairs of foreign consular offices in Hong Kong in accordance with the law and from a practical point of view," the ministry said on Wednesday, in response to queries seeking confirmation of the move. Hong Kong is part of China, but has had some autonomy since the end of British rule in 1997.
A Hindu celebration which was attended by more than 1,000 people was filled with "joy, heart-throbbing beats and the smiles on faces of young and old". The Swindon Hindu Centre is celebrating Ganesh Utsav, a religious celebration commemorating the birth of the Hindu god Ganesha, from 18 to 23 September. The event on Monday featured a Ganesha idol carried on a chariot in a lively procession of dancing and music. It was one of biggest gathering of Hindus ever seen in the town. Prayers and activities will be held over the next few days at the Swindon Hindu Centre to continue the celebrations.
Canada has accused India of involvement in the killing of a Canadian Sikh leader. But this  allegation strongly denied by Delhi. On Monday PM Justin Trudeau said Canada was looking at "credible allegations potentially linking" the Indian state to Hardeep Singh Nijjar's murder. Mr Nijjar was was shot dead outside a Sikh temple on 18 June in Canada. India has expelled a Canadian diplomat after Canada expelled Indian diplomat Pavan Kumar Rai over the case. Mr Nijjar, 45, was shot dead in his vehicle by two masked gunmen in the busy car park of the Guru Nanak Sikh Gurdwara in Surrey, a city about 30km (18 miles) east of Vancouver.
For the first time ever, more than one in 10 people in Japan are now aged 80 or older. National data also shows 29. 1% of the 125 million population is aged 65 or older- a record. Japan has one of the lowest birth-rates in the world and has long struggled with how to provide for its ageing population. It has the world's oldest population, measured by the proportion of people aged 65 or up, the United Nations says. That proportion stands at 24. 5% in Italy and 23. 6% in Finland, which rank second and third respectively. In Japan, those aged over 65 are expected to account for 34. 8% of the population by 2040, according to the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research.
China's top diplomat Wang Yi is visiting Russia as it seeks continued support for its war on Ukraine. Any bid to end the war must take into account Moscow's interests, Mr Wang and his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov were quoted as saying after a meeting. A close ally of Moscow, Beijing is accused of supporting Russia indirectly during the war, which it denies. Russian media said Mr Wang's trip would also pave the way for President Vladimir Putin's visit to China soon. This comes after Mr Putin met North Korea's Kim Jong Un amid US fears they could strike an arms deal. China's foreign ministry said Mr Wang is in Russia for four days for "strategic security consultations". After Monday's talks, the Russian foreign ministry said he and Mr Lavrov discussed the Ukraine war "and noted the futility of attempts to settle the crisis without taking account of Russia's interests and, more particularly, its participation".
Staff of embattled property developer Evergrande's wealth management unit have been detained by police in Shenzhen, southern China. In a post on social media police called on the public to report any cases of suspected fraud. Meanwhile, the takeover of the firm's insurance arm by a newly created state-owned insurer was announced on Friday. Evergrande is at the centre of a crisis that has engulfed China's real estate industry since 2021. "Recently, public security organs took criminal compulsory measures against Du and other suspected criminals at Evergrande Financial Wealth Management Co," Shenzhen Nanshan District Police Bureau said on Saturday. No further details were given on how many people were detained, their identities - except for the person identified only as Du - or what charges they could face.
A Hindu celebration will see a Ganesh idol carried on a chariot in a lively procession of dancing and music  through streets. Swindon Hindu Centre is celebrating Ganesh Utsav, a religious celebration commemorating the birth of the Hindu god Ganesha, from 18 to 23 September. The idol will be taken from Wharf Green Square in Swindon town centre to the Swindon Hindu Centre, where prayers and activities will be held over four days. Pratap Mane, from the centre, said the public event will be a Swindon first. The centre recently celebrated Shri Jagannath Rathyatra, which also featured a procession where three idols of Jagannath and his brother and sister were taken through the town.


British Army veterans are set to carry the memorial bench of a soldier killed in Afghanistan for 22 miles to raise money for a local charity. Sgt Gareth Thursby, a 29-year-old father of two, was shot and killed in Helmand Province in September 2012. Friends who served with Sgt Thursby will carry the 17st (110kg) bench from Halifax to Skipton, where he was from. Funds raised from the carry on Saturday will help Tommy's Lounge in Huddersfield, a cafe helping veterans. A team of about 25 people, made up of those who knew Sgt Thursby or served with him in the 3rd Battalion The Yorkshire Regiment, will take part in the carry. Four people will carry the new bench, which will be mounted on a frame, at a time.
The Indian government has accused X Corp (formerly known as Twitter) of being a "habitual non-complaint platform" in a recent court filing. "X-Corp does not follow the law of the land," the government said, adding that this lowered "the authority of the law, judiciary and executive". The document, accessed by the BBC, was filed by the government in response to an appeal by X in a court in the south Indian state of Karnataka. X has not commented on the filing. X is appealing against a recent order of the high court which dismissed its challenge to several government orders to block certain accounts and posts. The court had also imposed a fine of 5m rupees ($60,208; £48,450) on X for not complying with several such orders for over a year.
A top US envoy has questioned the absence of China's defence minister Li Shangfu, renewing speculation of a possible corruption purge. General Li has been not seen in public for about two weeks and has reportedly missed several meetings. Rahm Emanuel, the US envoy to Japan, speculated on Mr Li's absence, tweeting that the "unemployment rate" in the Chinese government was very high. Mr Li's absence follows recent axings of several top military officials. Citing sources in the US and China, The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Mr Li is being removed from his post. It also comes months after foreign minister Qin Gang disappeared from public view. Mr Qin's sudden absence and replacement in July has still not been fully explained.
A Bangladesh court has sentenced two prominent human rights activists to two years in jail, in what critics say is part of a crackdown ahead of elections. Adilur Rahman Khan and Nasiruddin Elan from rights group Odhikar always denied decade-old charges that they published a report with false information. But prosecutors said their report on security force killings in 2013 "undermined" the country's image. The two were convicted on Thursday in Dhaka after a 10-year judicial process. Dozens of international human rights groups have called for the two men's immediate release, saying the pair were denied a fair trial. Both activists have spent decades documenting thousands of alleged extrajudicial killings, disappearances of opposition activists and police brutalities in Bangladesh.

Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou has chosen an actress  for Taiwan VP whose Netflix drama sparked a MeToo movement as his running mate in January's presidential election. Tammy Lai, 60, is a veteran in show business but her candidacy has surprised many, given her lack of political experience. Mr Guo, the founder of iPhone maker Foxconn, is running as an independent. Taiwan will vote for a new president in the shadow of an increasingly assertive China. The self-governed island has been a democracy since 1996. Although Chinese claims over it are not new, this election will be the first since Beijing has made it ever clearer that it would not rule out the use of force to take the island. Mr Guo described Ms Lai "as an outstanding, all-round writer and spiritual mentor" while announcing her as his running mate on Thursday.
At least 56 people are known to have died and dozens were injured in a huge fire in an apartment block in Vietnam's capital Hanoi. Some 37 people were injured in the fire, police said, adding that 39 victims have been identified. The fire, which broke out during the night, has been extinguished. The owner of the building has been arrested. Authorities in fast-growing Hanoi say many newly-built apartments do not meet fire safety regulations. The city's population has quadrupled to 5. 25 million in the past 20 years. The cause of the fire is being investigated but witnesses said it started in the parking floor of the building, which was packed with motorbikes.
Rishi Sunak has been accused of having no clear strategy on China, leaving the UK's future security "handicapped". Sir Keir Starmer said the PM failed to heed warnings and was "desperately playing catch up", during the weekly Prime Minister's Questions session. The Labour leader repeated his call for a "full audit of UK-China relations". Mr Sunak said the UK had the "most robust policy" on China it had ever had and was in line with the country's international allies. It comes amid ongoing controversy about the arrest, in March, of a parliamentary researcher on suspicion of working as a Chinese agent.
Talks between Russian president Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on a possible arms deal are set to begin soon. Mr Kim travelled for two days in an armoured train to the Vostochny space centre in Russia's far east, in what was a highly scrutinised journey. Pyongyang fired a ballistic missile hours ahead of the meeting. The two sanctioned regimes are expected to strike a deal that exchanges weapons for humanitarian aid. The meeting between Mr Kim and Mr Putin is being closely watched by the US and its allies, although Pyongyang and Moscow deny that their talks are about military cooperation. The White House said it had new information that negotiations between Russia and North Korea were on a weapons deal were "actively advancing".
A judge in Pakistan has ruled Sara Sharif's siblings, who travelled from the UK with her father, should be sent to a government childcare facility. The five children were found at the home of their grandfather in Jhelum, north-eastern Pakistan. Sara, 10, was found dead at her family home in Woking, Surrey, on 10 August - a day after three adults, including her father, left the UK. Post-mortem tests found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". Sara's father Urfan Sharif, stepmother Beinash Batool and his brother Faisal Malik left the UK with five children aged between one and 13. Surrey Police said they would like to speak to the three adults in relation to Sara's death, and were "absolutely committed to conducting a thorough investigation".
A woman has been given the all-clear from cancer after being treated with a drug described as a "miracle". Carrie Downey's stage three bowel cancer disappeared within six months of taking dostarlimab. She is one of a small number of people globally to be given the drug for bowel cancer. While the drug is still being clinically trialled, early data has so far shown a 100% success rate against a specific variant of the disease. Around 42,000 people are diagnosed with bowel cancer in the UK every year. Early trials have shown the drug to be effective in treating 3% to 5% of bowel cancers which have a particular gene mutation. Wales and Italy are the only countries so far to have approved dostarlimab as a standard offer for the disease.
Inquests into the deaths of a further 10 patients of jailed breast surgeon Ian Paterson have been opened and adjourned. Paterson is currently serving a 20-year sentence after he carried out unnecessary or unapproved procedures on more than 1,000 breast cancer patients. The coroner, judge Richard Foster, said he "had reason to believe" substandard care had caused or contributed to the deaths of the 10 women. So far 48 inquests have been opened. Mr Foster said he expected there would be "about 70 or 80 live inquests to deal with" when substantive hearings begin from October next year. "Following a review of this case by a multi-disciplinary team, I have reason to believe that the deceased's death was caused or contributed to by sub-standard treatment provided by Mr Paterson, and other clinicians involved in the care of the deceased," the coroner said before opening each inquest.
A Guernsey woman says advice from a stranger probably saved her life. Janine De Robillard was diagnosed with breast cancer in May after a woman who was going through treatment suggested she check herself regularly. On checking her breasts for the first time, she found an abnormal lump and booked an appointment. Mrs De Robillard, 42, said her cancer was caught early and was now urging other women to check themselves and go to screening clinics. "I just feel that I was given a blessing by running into someone that was going through it," she said. "If she hadn't had the courage to say. . . to check, then I probably wouldn't be here or it would be too far. "


"Long colds" can be a thing in the same way that "long Covid" is, with some people experiencing prolonged symptoms after an initial infection, according to a UK study. Common long cold symptoms included a cough, stomach pain and diarrhoea. The findings come from 10,171 adults who completed questionnaires. More work is needed to understand who is at risk, how bad it can be and what can be done about it, experts say. The idea that a respiratory virus - or indeed other viral infections - can cause longer-lasting illness is not new, but the recent Covid pandemic has brought fresh attention to the phenomenon.
A bill designed to stop protests outside Scotland's abortion clinics has been published at Holyrood. Green MSP Gillian Mackay's bill would set up "buffer zones" around the facilities, preventing people from gathering nearby. It is likely to have cross-party support and is being backed by the Scottish government. Anti-abortion campaigners from the USA have said they will challenge any such law in the courts. The Abortion Services Safe Access Zones (Scotland) Bill aims to create 200m (656ft) "safe access" zones around facilities which carry out abortions and other health services. The bill would also includes powers to allow health board to have the size of a zone extended. It would allow for an unlimited maximum fine for people who breach it.
Emergency kits designed to stop life-threatening bleeding until paramedics arrive have been agreed for a town in the wake of a schoolboy being stabbed. Four cabinets containing potentially life-saving products have been placed around Redcar. Councillor Peter Grogan championed the kits after a 15-year-old was stabbed in broad daylight on Mersey Road in June. They have been funded by Cleveland's Police and Crime Commissioner (PCC) as part of a violence reduction programme.Mr Grogan, who previously worked as a club doorman, said: "When somebody has a catastrophic bleed, there are only three to five minutes to save a life.
A new diagnostic centre which could see thousands of tests being carried out every year has got the green light . The Corby Community Diagnostic Centre (CDC) is planned for the Willowbrook Health Centre site. Procedures such as MRI and ultrasound scans will be carried out in the new building. The trust that runs Northamptonshire's acute hospitals said there would be a big increase in testing capacity. Community diagnostic centres were introduced after a review by Professor Mike Richards into the way medical problems were diagnosed across the NHS. The review suggested that community testing centres should be set up so people would not have to go to hospital for routine scans - and pressure on hospital scanners would be reduced.
An Exercises programme that aims to improve the mobility and wellbeing of elderly residents and prevent falls has been launched for home care. The 12-week long Senior Games, offered by Swindon Borough Council, will see instructors visit nine care homes offering chair-based exercises. There will also be competitive games, such as foam javelin throwing, tin-can alley and golf putting. The programme is open to all care home residents. Participants' physical fitness, mobility and how anxious they feel about falling will be measured at the start and end of the 12-week period. It is hoped residents will improve in each of the measurements so they see longer term health and wellbeing improvements and less falls, which will ease the pressure on health and social care services.
Moderna is hoping to make its Covid jab available privately in the UK. Currently, it can be given only as part of the NHS autumn booster programme. But next year, the Covid vaccine's licence is likely to be updated so High Street pharmacies and private clinics can sell it like the flu jab. Moderna chief executive Stephane Bancel told BBC News his teams were "working with governments to make this happen". "People who want to be protected should be able to be protected," he said.


A former flying instructor who was raising awareness of testing early for prostate cancer has died of the disease. Tony Hughes, 68, from Calne, Wiltshire, passed away on Thursday morning, his family said. Several aircraft took part in a flypast of Prospect Hospice, where he was staying, to honour him on Tuesday. Mr Hughes' wife, Sue, said he wanted to encourage others to get tested early because "it was too late for him". The former RAF pilot ran the Wiltshire Microlight Centre and was a two-time European hang gliding champion. In a tribute posted on Facebook,a spokesperson for the centre said: "It is with great sadness we announce that Tony Hughes, owner of the Wiltshire Microlight Centre, passed away peacefully in The Prospect Hospice. "
An East Yorkshire hospital is believed to be the first in the country to use a virtual reality (VR) treadmill to help people recover from brain injuries. The equipment at Castle Hill Hospital in Cottingham aimed to "transform" the way patients exercised, a hospital spokesperson said. The VR technology simulated real-life challenges such as shopping trips or mountain treks, according to doctors. Dr Abayomi Salawu described it as a "ground-breaking addition". Patients using the treadmill could walk, jog, or run in any direction, challenging themselves at their own pace, hospital bosses said. With advanced motion sensors and responsive control systems, it could adapt to users' own movements, giving "an unparalleled level of freedom and fluidity", they added.
A woman forced to plan her own rehabilitation when she was paralysed said a new £105m NHS facility would help others with serious injuries. Work has started on the National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC), which will care for the most seriously ill and injured patients. Barbara Todd became a paraplegic when someone "slammed" a door into her back in 2001. She said the centre would help patients "reach their full potential". Ms Todd said she was forced to rehabilitate herself due to a lack of support after the freak accident. The former neuroscientist and lecturer said the new centre meant patients rehabilitating from similar injuries "won't have to do it alone". The facility will look after patients from across the East Midlands who are recovering from a major trauma, including those who have suffered serious spinal, head and neurological injuries.
Plans to phase out the sale of cigarettes in England will be the "biggest public health intervention in a generation", Rishi Sunak has said. The PM told the BBC there was "no safe level of smoking" when asked about restricting people's right to choose. His plan seeks to raise the legal age of smoking every year by a year so that eventually no-one can buy tobacco. Tory MPs will be allowed a free vote while Labour indicated it would back the policy. But some critics of the policy say it could lead to the creation of a "black market". Last year, the tobacco industry raised more than £10bn in taxes, a 3% drop from 2021-22.
The family of a five-year-old boy who died after being sent home from hospital have rejected a report which found his care was appropriate. Yusuf Mahmud Nazir died on 23 November, eight days after he was seen at Rotherham General Hospital and sent home with antibiotics. A report into his care was published on Thursday, after his family claimed he should have been admitted to hospital. Yusuf's uncle, Zaheer Ahmed, said: "It's not an accurate report. " Yusuf died after a severe infection spread to his lungs. The report made several recommendations, but said "these would not have changed the course of events" for the child.
A knitted postbox topper depicting Kylie Minogue has been auctioned and raised funds for a breast cancer charity. The topper was originally given to the Australian pop star at the Radio 2 in the Park event in Leicester. The design was knitted by an anonymous Leicestershire crafter known as Syston Knitting Banxy. Minogue, who was treated for breast cancer in 2005, asked for the topper to be auctioned off for the Future Dreams breast cancer charity. "It's wonderful. I've never seen anything like it," Sam Jacobs, trustee at the Future Dreams, said. "We are just so humbled and grateful to have it here and everything that SKB [the Syston Knitting Banxy] has done for us. "
The family and teammates of an amateur footballer who took his own life have set up a football club where men can talk openly about mental health. Daniel Johnson from Eynsham, Oxfordshire, died in October 2021 at the age of 26. Football in Mind, which was created in his memory, provides counsellors and avenues to players for services in the local area. One of the founders said he could not "do nothing" when Daniel passed away. The aim of Football in Mind is to create an opportunity for men of all ages and abilities to get together and be part of a supportive community.
An NHS stop-smoking scheme is helping pregnant women in Lincolnshire to kick and quit the habit. The programme known as STAAR is an initiative run in partnership with Lincolnshire County Council. It began in January to support pregnant women and their families as part of maternity care received by United Lincolnshire Hospital Trust. Midwife Gillian Walker said patients completing a "smoke-free journey" was a "fantastic achievement". Ms Walker, tobacco dependency lead midwife, said: "Over the coming months, we're expecting to see more and more patients completing their smoke free journey. " "With specialist support, smokers are three times more likely to succeed than going it alone," she added. Officials said the STAAR programme currently had several expectant mothers signed up and being helped by a tobacco dependency lead midwife and tobacco dependency advisors.
A student whose heart stopped six times in one day has said the experience has made him realise he wants to follow in the footsteps of those who saved him. Atul Rao, 21, went into cardiac arrest after blood clots in his lungs stopped his heart from beating on 27 July. It stopped five more times, settling once clot-busting drugs kicked in. Atul, a US citizen studying a pre-medical degree who was in London at the time, said the experience made him want to continue a career in medicine. "Before this happened, I was starting to wonder if I was doing the right thing doing medicine and whether I should be going into business instead. "But the minute I woke up, I knew. I want to use my time in a productive way. I want to use my second chance at life by helping others. "
Doctors should ask people with a mental-health problem about their gambling habits to identify those who need help, draft health guidance says. It adds that with problem gamblers, GPs should discuss software to limit online gambling and talking therapy treatment at an early stage. Patients can be referred to one of 12 NHS gambling-treatment clinics in England, with three more planned. Some 300,000 UK adults are problem gamblers, a recent review found. And their addiction affects another 3. 8 million people, including children. Men are more likely to gamble than women, the review says, especially online, where 15% of men but only 4% of women gamble.
Over 75,000 union workers at healthcare provider Kaiser Permanente have gone on strike, beginning the largest walkout by health workers in US history. The three-day work stoppage involves nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians in five US states and Washington DC. Nearly 13 million patients could be impacted by the strike, which follows stalled contract negotiations between the unions and Kaiser Permanente. Hospitals and emergency facilities will remain open throughout the strike. A previous labour agreement between the eight unions in the coalition and the company expired on 30 September, Through the strike, the Coalition of Kaiser Permanente Unions hopes to pressure the California-based company to address staffing shortages that began during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, as well as better wages.
A former flying instructor who has terminal cancer has been honoured with a flypast at a local hospice. Tony Hughes, 68, from Calne, has prostate cancer and is trying to raise awareness of getting tested. Several aircraft flew past Prospect Hospice, including a microlight similar to the one Mr Hughes had taught people to fly when he was an instructor. His wife, Sue, said: "He's trying to promote the idea of having the tests early to prevent the disease. " She said her husband wanted to encourage others to get tested for the illness early because "it was too late for him". A former RAF pilot, Mr Hughes runs the Wiltshire Microlight Centre and is a two-time European hang gliding champion.
A surgeon, who worked at a hospital where the third UK coronavirus victim died, has been struck-off for claiming the virus was a hoax. The Medical Practitioners Tribunal ruled that Mr Muhammad Adil undermined public health and public confidence in the medical profession. Mr Muhammad Adil, who also posted anti-vaccination comments online, had worked at North Manchester General Hospital. The hospital is where a man, aged 60, died early in the pandemic. The tribunal said Mr Adil worked as a locum consultant colorectal surgeon for the trust between April and October of 2020 and appeared in publicly accessible videos "expressing his views about the Sars-CoV-2 virus, the Covid-19 pandemic and the proposed vaccination programme.
The age at which people can buy cigarettes and tobacco in England should rise by one year every year so that eventually no-one can buy them, the prime minister says. Rishi Sunak said MPs were to be given a free vote in parliament on the issue. Under the plan, the age of sale would rise from 18 every year so a child aged 14 today would never be allowed to buy tobacco. The idea was put forward by a government-commissioned review in 2022. Speaking at the Conservative party conference, Mr Sunak said he believed it was the right step to tackle the leading cause of preventable ill-health. Smoking increases the risk of strokes, heart disease, dementia and stillbirth as well as causing one in four deaths from cancer. "There is no safe level of smoking," he said. Smoking rates have been falling since the 1970s. But there are still more than five million smokers in England and six million across the UK.
Two people have been arrested at an anti abortion protest outside the Causeway Hospital near Coleraine, County Londonderry. The man and woman allegedly refused to leave the established safe access zone on Tuesday morning, police said. New legislation came into effect last week to stop protestors gathering directly outside health settings where abortions take place. Police said they explained the law to the pair and asked them to move away. Officers said they engaged with the man and woman over an extended period, When they allegedly refused to move, they were both arrested under the Abortion Services (Safe Access Zones) Act (Northern Ireland) 2023. The pair were bailed a short time later pending further inquiries. "We have been in communication with the Department of Health and health trusts in preparation for the introduction of safe access zones across Northern Ireland this month," said Ch Insp Vince Redmond of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.
Questions have been raised over why a city's 36-bed care home has only one person living in it. Wheatridge Court, in Shergar Close, Abbeydale, Gloucester, is run by Gloucestershire County Council. Councillor Andrew Gravells said it showed a disconnect between the NHS and the council, adding if the unit was used at capacity it could allow more people to be discharged from hospital. The council chairman said it was an important point that needed looking at. Speaking at the corporate overview and scrutiny committee on 27 September, Mr Gravells asked council chiefs why the site is underused, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said. As chairman of the health overview and scrutiny committee he said he is "constantly briefed" about how the lack of adequate care packages are leading to a delay in patients being discharged from hospital.
A midwife-led unit at Altnagelvin Hospital in Londonderry has been unable to reopen since the Covid-19 pandemic due to a shortage of midwives. "Attempts are being made to address the issue," the Western Health and Social Care Trust (WHSCT) told BBC News NI. They said women can still receive midwife-led services at the Derry hospital in the delivery suite and also for the antenatal and postnatal period. The unit was re-designated as a Covid-19 treatment area during the pandemic. A trust spokesperson said that "there is a shortage of midwives regionally" and that it "has increased the number of midwives in training in an attempt to improve the recruitment of staff". A Department of Health spokeswoman told BBC News NI the trust had taken an "operational decision" to close the unit.
A new robot developed by the University of Bristol could help diagnose breast cancer early. The device could make clinical breast examinations more accessible as they could take place locally in pharmacies. The robot's efficacy was tested using a silicone breast to see how accurate it was at detecting lumps. "We hope that in the future this could be a real help in diagnosing cancers early," said George Jenkinson, lead author on the project. "There have been a few attempts in the past to use technology to improve these examinations. "But having a robot or electronic device that can physically feel breast tissue could be revolutionary"
Parents have been warned to check the temperature of babies' formula as a recent study showed 85% of machines tested did not kill harmful bacteria. A mum who took part in the study said she was "shocked" to see her preparation machine failed despite being made specifically for babies. Formula-fed babies have a higher risk of infections due to bacteria that live within powdered infant formula. Swansea University's study revealed 85% of the 74 infant formula preparation machines tested by parents in UK homes did not produce water hot enough to kill harmful bacteria in infant formula.
A dentist found to have been responsible for sexually-motivated comments and texts has been suspended for a year. The professional conduct committee also heard that Ali Ostovan shouted at and kissed a patient. But it decided the misconduct of Mr Ostovan, of South Cliff Dental Group in Eastleigh, "whilst serious", was "capable of being remedied". Mr Ostovan denied the sexual allegations. According to the Dental Professional Hearings Service, the General Dental Council (GDC) received information from NHS England (South East) in 2020 that he had acted inappropriately. He allegedly obtained the phone number of one woman, known as Patient B, from her dental records and sent her inappropriate text messages. One text message to the patient, who was undergoing root canal treatment with him, said: "'You can always come to my house tonight for a private emergency exam! "
Appointments for cardiology patients have been reinstated in a U-turn by Manx Care after some had been told they were to face a year-long wait. The health provider has asked those booked for the clinics on Monday and Wednesday next week to now attend. Manx Care previously cancelled and rearranged the sessions for 2024 due to a lack of consultants. The changes had angered some patients, including Paul Hay who said he felt he had been left "to struggle on his own". In an update, Manx Care said any patients who had an appointment cancelled this week would also be contacted to have it rearranged as soon as possible. A spokeswoman said the existing cardiology team would cover the reinstated clinics from 9 October to "try to address the high demand placed upon the service".
A hospital discriminated against an employee with disabilities after he asked to switch to part-time work, a tribunal concluded. The claimant worked as an A&E clerical coordinator at Princess Alexandra Hospital in Harlow, Essex, when he asked to switch from full-time hours. A senior manager refused the request from the employee, who had several chronic physical conditions. The NHS declined to comment because legal proceedings were still ongoing. The discrimination complaint was upheld but the employment tribunal judge concluded additional claims of "failure to make reasonable adjustments" and "harassment related to disability" were not "well-founded" and were dismissed.
At least 23 people have been killed in landslides caused by heavy rains in Cameroon's capital Yaoundé, the emergency services have said. A local radio station put the death toll at 40, saying that many people are still missing. Rescue efforts were hampered by floods, forcing locals to pull bodies out of the debris with their bare hands. Heavy rainfall caused the Mefou River to burst its banks on Sunday, submerging several neighbourhoods. The disaster comes almost a year after at least 14 people died in another landslide in the city. The poor neighbourhood of Mbankolo was worst affected in the latest disaster, with some homes, built on slopes, collapsing and banana trees being uprooted. The bodies of children were "spread out on the wet ground", a resident was quoted as saying by the Cameroon Voice news website.
12 Thais have been killed and another 11 kidnapped by Palestinian Hamas militants who launched a mass assault from Gaza on Israel. Another eight Thai nationals have been injured in the violence since Saturday, said Thailand's foreign ministry. It said air force planes were on standby to fly its citizens home. There are some 30,000 Thais in Israel working in agriculture, many near the Gaza border. Nepal said 10 of its citizens had been killed. Other countries which have reported citizens killed, abducted or missing in the violence in Israel include the US, UK and Germany. Thailand's labour minister Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn told AFP news agency that some 5,000 Thai labourers work in the zone where fighting has been taking place, but that Israeli forces had begun moving them to safety. He added that 1,099 workers have registered to return home. Workers at a farm in Mivtahim, a town near the Gaza Strip, described Hamas militants storming their farm after rockets were fired in the early hours of Saturday.
Officials have been in contact with the family of an Irish-Israeli woman who is unaccounted for in Israel, the tánaiste (deputy prime minister) has said. Kim Damti, 22, was at a party in southern Israel when she was last seen. It follows a wave of attacks launched by the Hamas militant group on Saturday. Micheál Martin said the Department of Foreign Affairs and consular officials were aware of the case. He added they do not intend on commenting specifically at this time. Kim's Irish mother, Jennifer Damti, said she last spoke to her daughter at 06:30 local time on Saturday, just as militants launched their attack.
On Saturday morning, people in Gaza celebrated after Hamas fired thousands of rockets into Israel and launched deadly cross-border attacks  as Gaza hospital deluged as Israel retaliates with strikes. A day later, the picture was very different. After non-stop Israeli shelling, people were staying indoors. Explosions continued throughout Sunday. The sound was terrifying. Clouds of black smoke engulfed buildings across the Gaza Strip. The Israeli army says it has hit more than 1,000 targets in Gaza. These include military positions, the homes of the Hamas's leaders, as well as banks run by the militant group. One of the more significant Israeli strikes on Sunday morning targeted the Watan Tower, which serves as a hub for internet providers in Gaza.
A motorcyclist has died following a single vehicle crash in County Donegal on Sunday. Gardaí (Irish police) said he was a man aged in his late 40s. It happened on the R262, near Glenties, just before 16:00 local time. The man received treatment at the scene, but died a short time later. Gardaí said the road was closed to traffic with diversions in place. They have asked anyone with dash cam footage who were travelling in the area at the time to contact them.


Emergency teams in Afghanistan are racing to rescue people from the rubble left by a powerful earthquake that struck the west of the country. More than 1,000 people are feared dead after the 6. 3-magnitude quake hit villages in Herat Province on Saturday. With communications down and many roads blocked, rescue workers are struggling to reach remote areas. Hundreds have also been injured. The UN and other organisations have begun to rush in emergency supplies. The earthquake struck about 40km (25 miles) north-west of the city of Herat at around 11:00 local time (06:30 GMT) on Saturday. The worst-affected communities consist of mud structures. "In the very first shake all the houses collapsed," Herat resident Bashir Ahmad, whose family lives in one of the villages, told AFP news agency. "Those who were inside the houses were buried," he added. "There are families we have heard no news from. "
A British man serving with the Israeli military has been killed in an attack by Hamas militants, his family says. Nathanel Young had been serving with the Israel Defense Forces when he was killed on the Gaza border on Saturday. The 20-year-old's brother, Eliot Young, said Nathanel had been "the life of the party" and was "loved by everyone". Two other British citizens - Jake Marlowe and Dan Darlington - are missing in Israel following Saturday's attacks by Palestinian militants. Mr Young's brother Eliot said: "Nathanel was full of life and the life of the party.
Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said Labour "stands with the people of Israel", following attacks by Hamas. Speaking to a fringe event at the Labour conference, Mr Lammy said "Israel has a right to self-defence against terrorism". Any response should be "proportionate" and "within international law", Mr Lammy added. More than 600 Israelis have reportedly been killed in attacks from Gaza since Saturday. Retaliatory Israeli air strikes have killed at least 370 people in the Gaza Strip, with 2,200 wounded, Palestinian officials say.
Israeli security forces are carrying out operations to rescue hostages taken by Palestinian militants from Gaza and clear areas they seized on Saturday. The military said troops had secured 22 locations by Sunday morning but were still sweeping through another eight. The surprise attack by hundreds of gunmen from Hamas, under the cover of intense rocket fire, has reportedly killed at least 600 people in Israel. More than 370 people in Gaza have been killed in retaliatory Israeli strikes. And 400 Palestinian gunmen have been killed and dozens arrested during the fighting in Israel, according to the Israeli military. Saturday saw Israel's deadliest day of violence since the Yom Kippur war 50 years ago. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Saturday night that Israel was going into a "long and difficult war". He also warned Hamas, which governs Gaza, that its hideouts would be reduced to "rubble".
A German mother is pleading for information about her daughter, who she believes was kidnapped by Palestinian militants at a music festival in Israel and paraded through the streets in the back of a pick-up truck. Shani Louk, a German tourist, had been attending the festival near the Gaza border when Hamas militants stormed the area, opening fire and sending terrified partygoers fleeing through the desert. Her mother, Ricarda, said she had seen a video of Shani "unconscious in a car" after being taken. Holding up a picture of the twenty-something on her mobile phone, she said in a social media appeal that her daughter had been "kidnapped with a group of tourists in southern Israel by Palestinian Hamas". "We were sent a video in which I could clearly see our daughter unconscious in the car with the Palestinians and them driving around the Gaza Strip.
Hundreds of people are feared dead after a powerful earthquake hit western Afghanistan, near the Iranian border. The Taliban government initially said the death toll could be more than 2,000, but later clarified that this number included injured people as well. The 6. 3 magnitude quake devastated at least 12 villages near the city of Herat on Saturday. There were powerful aftershocks. Survivors described their terror as buildings collapsed around them. Rescue teams worked through the night trying to find survivors trapped beneath the rubble. Thousands of people have been injured. In a country with sorely inadequate medical facilities, hospitals are struggling to treat the injured. The UN and other organisations have begun to rush in emergency supplies. The earthquake struck about 40km (25 miles) north-west of Herat at around 11:00 local time (06:30 GMT) on Saturday.
Video footage shows an Israeli missile destroy a building close to the BBC's broadcast position in Gaza. The footage was filmed on Saturday, as Israel began retaliatory strikes following a large-scale attack by Hamas militants.
Two Israeli tourists and their Egyptian guide have been shot dead in the Egyptian city of Alexandria, the Israeli foreign ministry says. Another Israeli was wounded in the attack on Sunday morning, which the ministry said a "local" carried out. There was no immediate confirmation from Egyptian authorities. But the private Extra News TV channel reported that a policeman had opened fire on a group visiting an ancient Roman site known as Pompey's Pillar. The assailant fired "at random" using his personal weapon, it cited a security source as saying, adding that he was detained at the scene. Footage of the aftermath of the attack posted on social media showed at least two people apparently dead on the ground at an archaeological site. The Israeli foreign ministry said it was working with Egyptian authorities in order to return the Israeli citizens to Israel as soon as possible.
A man in his 40s has died after he was struck by a vehicle in Dundalk motorway, County Louth, gardaí (Irish police) have said. The collision happened at about 02:45 local time at Junction 16 on the southbound M1 motorway, on Sunday. Ambulance personnel attended to a male driver in his 50s and his three passengers for non-life threatening injuries. The man's body remains at the scene and a post-mortem examination will take place in due course. The road remains closed and local diversions are in place. It was one of three fatal road accidents across Ireland overnight. At Skrine Hill in County Roscommon a man in his 20s died when the car he was driving overturned.
A green initiative born in a UK city has proven so successful it has expanded globally. Sustainable Fashion Week (SFW) launched in Bristol in 2021, to challenge the environmental impact of the industry during London Fashion Week. It has since tripled in size, with events happening around the UK and in India, Papua New Guinea and the US. Priyanka Abhishek, from SFW India, said the initiative was helping Indians to "get back to their roots". After the success of last year's event, Dr Abhishek and her friend Laghna Gowda approached SFW Bristol based founder Amelia Twine to see if they could run its Indian arm.
People living in cities in Mali under siege by al-Qaeda-linked militants have told the BBC they are facing shortages of food, fuel and medicine, and rapidly rising prices. The blockades have come as fighting intensifies between the army, who are backed by Russian Wagner mercenaries, and both Islamist groups and ethnic Tuareg separatist fighters. For nearly two months, Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin (JNIM) has been trying to completely cut off the historic northern city of Timbuktu, preventing supplies from getting in. "Dozens of trucks loaded with food and goods used to arrive daily in the city, but now, after the siege, nothing comes," said Omar Sidi Muhammad, who lives in the city and works as a journalist. Most of the supplies used to come to Timbuktu from Mauritania and Algeria.
At least 250 people are reported killed and 1,590 wounded in Israel after the Palestinian militant group Hamas launched its biggest attack in years. Dozens of gunmen from Gaza infiltrated southern Israeli communities after dawn under the cover of heavy rocket fire. They have taken both Israeli soldiers and civilians hostage, and some have been brought back to Gaza. Israel has responded with a wave of air strikes on Gaza that have killed 232 people and wounded 1,600, medics say. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel was "at war" and vowed that Hamas, which rules Gaza, would "pay an unprecedented price". The Israeli military has mobilised tens of thousands of reservists and is now expected to launch a ground operation in Gaza.

Thousands of people have come together in Creeslough, County Donegal, to remember the 10 people who died in an explosion a year ago. The families and relatives of those who lost their lives were joined at a memorial service close to the scene of the blast. To mark the anniversary, just after 15:00 local time - the time the devastating explosion happened - the crowd fell silent. Bereaved families held on to each other as they reflected on their loss and remembered their loved ones.
A man has appeared in court charged with the murder of Joe Brosnan in County Kerry last year. The 53 year old was found with serious stab wounds in his apartment in Abbey Court, Tralee, on 22 May 2022. The grandfather was pronounced dead a short time later. Patrick Murphy, 51, and of no fixed abode, was arrested in England in recent days on foot of a trade and co-operation agreement arrest warrant and was extradited to the Republic of Ireland on Friday, RTÉ reports. He was then arrested at Dublin Airport by gardaí (Irish police). At a special sitting of Kenmare District Court on Saturday, Mr Murphy was remanded in custody to appear before Tralee District Court next Wednesday.
A London court has thrown out a €145m (£126m) legal case brought by a former lover of the ex-king of Spain. Danish businesswoman Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein-Sayn had accused Juan Carlos of directing a campaign of harassment against her after their relationship broke down in 2012. She alleged the intimidation - including spying and break ins - began after she refused to grant him access to gifts he had given worth millions of pounds. Juan Carlos denied the allegations. On Friday a judge ruled that the High Court of England and Wales had no jurisdiction in the case, but made no judgement on the substance of the allegations. In addition, Judge Rowena Collins Rice said that Ms zu Sayn-Wittgenstein-Sayn - a British citizen - had not "sufficiently established that the 'harmful event' of which she complains, harassment by the defendant, happened in England". 
More than 115 bodies have been found "improperly" stored at a Colorado funeral home that specialises in "green burials", officials say. Authorities were initially alerted to the scene after being called about a foul odour coming from The Return to Nature Funeral Home. The FBI has said it is "not clear if a crime has been committed" and that the owners have been cooperative. Identifying the remains could take months. After searching an area of more than 2,500 sq ft (232 sq m) earlier this week, authorities discovered "improperly stored" bodies, which were creating a "hazardous scene", officials said at a press conference on Friday. Located in Penrose, Colorado - about 30 miles (48km) south of Colorado Springs - The Return to Nature Funeral Home specialises in burials where no chemicals, including embalming fluid, are used and where remains are buried in a biodegradable casket. 
Donald Trump has asked a federal court to dismiss charges against him of election interference, arguing his role entitled him to "absolute immunity". Mr Trump's lawyers say his attempts to cast doubt on the 2020 results fell within his duties as president. His public statements were attempts at "ensuring the integrity of federal elections", they added. The indictment, brought by Jack Smith, alleges he made illegal attempts to stay in office. It is one of a number of filings in recent days from his legal team. On Friday, Mr Trump's attorneys filed a lawsuit seeking to pause his New York civil fraud trial that began this week. His legal team argued a previous ruling from Judge Arthur Engoron - which found Mr Trump liable for business fraud - would cause "significant, irreparable harm" to his business.
The top US and Turkish diplomats have spoken by phone after US forces in Syria shot down an armed Turkish drone. Washington said the drone came too close to its ground forces in Syria, but Ankara merely said it was lost during operations. During the call between the Nato allies, Hakan Fidan told the US Turkey would keep targeting Kurdish groups. The US works with Kurdish YPG forces in Syria, but Turkey views them as separatists and terrorists. Mr Fidan told US Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Turkey's "counter-terrorism operations in Iraq and Syria will continue with determination". Meanwhile a US State Department spokesperson said Mr Blinken highlighted the need for Washington and Ankara to "coordinate and deconflict" their activities. On Thursday US military officials said a US F-16 fighter jet shot down the armed Turkish drone which was operating near American troops in Syria after giving several warnings.
The United Auto Workers (UAW) union has not expanded its strike action against three of America's biggest car firms, citing "significant" progress in talks. Union boss Shawn Fain said it would hold off after General Motors had agreed that workers at its electric vehicle battery factories would automatically become union members. But while it will not stage walk outs at new locations, the strike continues. "Our strike is working but we're not there yet," said Mr Fain. Roughly 25,000 car workers at GM, Ford Motor and Chrysler parent Stellantis are currently on the picket line. The union, which represents roughly 146,000 people at the firms, declared a strike in mid-September, after contracts between the two parties expired. It is the first industrial action by the UAW to target all three companies at once, but it has remained limited in scope, as the union calls on select locations to participate, wielding the threat of more to try to pressure the companies to agree a deal.
A nursing assistant said to have injected Nigerian Afrobeats star Mohbad with drugs is the prime suspect in his death, police say. MohBad died at a hospital last month in circumstances that were unclear. The 27-year-old's death led to an outpouring of grief among his fans, who demanded a thorough investigation. On Friday, police said a nurse who treated Mohbad had allegedly injected him in a negligent way. The nurse is under arrest and has not yet commented. For the first time, the police laid out the chain of events that led to Mohbad's death in the city of Lagos. On 10 September, Mohbad, real name Ilerioluwa Oladimeji Aloba, injured himself in a "violent fight" with childhood friend Oluwatosin Owoduni, also known as Primeboy, said Lagos State Police Command commissioner Idowu Owohunwa. Mohbad, a married father to a five-month old, had tried to strike Mr Owoduni. However, he missed and cut his hand when he smashed a car window.
President Joe Biden is under fire and faces criticism  from both Republicans and Democrats after his administration announced new border wall construction in Texas. Mr Biden has said he "had no choice" because the funding was signed off while Donald Trump was president. Members of his Democratic Party said walls did not work, while rival Republicans accused him of hypocrisy. Some 20 miles (32km) of barriers will be built in a sparsely populated stretch of the Rio Grande Valley. While campaigning for president in 2020, Mr Biden promised he would not build another foot of wall if elected. He said it was "not a serious policy solution". But on Wednesday, his administration used its sweeping executive powers to waive more than two dozen federal laws, including some that are designed to protect wildlife, to allow more barriers to be built along the US-Mexico border in southern Texas. In a notice announcing these waivers, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said there was an "acute and immediate need" for the construction.
Pascaline Bongo, the sister of Gabon’s deposed President Ali Bongo, will reportedly face trial in France in January 2024, on suspicion of corruption. She is accused of facilitating public contracts in Gabon between 2010 and 2011 for the French construction firm Egis Route, for a promised reward of 8m euro ($8. 4m; £6. 9m). Pascaline Bongo who served her late father, Omar Bongo, as chief of staff denies the allegations. She “was never in contact with anyone, no contract was signed and none of the evidence points to a transfer of money”, Corinne Dreyfus-Schmidt, Ms Bongo's lawyer, told the AFP news agency. Egis Route told AFP: “We will be contesting the corruption allegations as firmly as possible. ” While the legal issue targets Pascaline Bongo and Egis Route, it will also involve at least five other people. In Gabon itself, Ali Bongo's wife, Sylvia, has been charged with money laundering, receiving stolen property, forgery, and the use of forgery. 
The parents of a 14-year-old boy who fatally shot two people inside a luxury shopping mall in central Bangkok have asked for forgiveness. A letter, written in Thai by the boy's father and released to the media, states the family is cooperating fully with authorities in the legal process. The boy faces charges of murder after he opened fire on Tuesday inside the Siam Paragon mall - one of the most-visited shopping centres in Asia. His motives remain unclear. In the letter the parents said their son was now in the juvenile observation and protection department as they expressed their "profound sense of regret". "We offer our deepest apologies to the victims, the families of the deceased and the injured from the recent shooting incident that occurred as the result of our son's actions at the Siam Paragon department store," the statement says.
Human voices cause considerably more fear in wild mammals than the sound of lions, a study in South Africa has found. Scientists played recordings of people talking normally through speakers hidden at water holes in the Kruger National Park. About 95% of animals were extremely frightened and quickly ran away. In contrast, recordings of snarling and growling lions elicited significantly less alarm. The human speech they chose to play included local languages commonly spoken in the country. During the experiment they noted that some elephants, in response to the big cat calls, even attempted to confront the source of the sound.
Kenya’s Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has defended the country’s police after criticism about their planned deployment to quell gang violence in Haiti. Mr Gachagua on Friday said that Kenya’s police “have a very good track record across the world”- though it was not clear what missions he was referring to. Several human rights organisations both in Kenya and internationally have expressed worries that the police could “export” their human rights abuses to Haiti. In August, the rights group Amnesty International wrote an open letter to the UN Security Council saying that it was concerned about the deployment due to the record of Kenyan police responding using excessive and unnecessary force. It also said that it has documented more than 30 cases of Kenyan police killing protesters this year alone. Mr Gachagua has, however, said that the UN Security Council approved Kenyan police to lead the multinational force to Haiti "after thoroughly checking on the output" of the officers.
The number of US jobs surged more than expected last month, fuelling expectations that interest rates could rise further. Employers added 336,000 jobs in September, almost double the 170,000 estimated, according to figures released by the Labor Department. Data for August was also revised higher to show 227,000 jobs were created instead of 187,000 previously reported. The unemployment rate in the US remained at 3. 8%. The leisure and hospitality sector added 96,000 jobs alone in September, above the average monthly gain, with employment in food services and bars rising by by 61,000 over the month and returning to pre-pandemic levels. But while job numbers surged, monthly wage growth remained moderate in September, with average hourly earnings rising 4. 2% in the 12 months to September.
An American tourist has been arrested for allegedly smashing sculptures in the Israel Museum in Jerusalem. Images shared by Israeli police show the two ancient Roman statues, dating from the 2nd Century, lying broken on the floor of the museum. Police say the man damaged the statues because he said they were "against the Torah", Judaism's most important text. His lawyer has denied that he had acted out of religious fanaticism, according to the AP news agency. The museum says staff alerted the police after seeing a man damaging the two statues. A sculpture of the head of Athena, the daughter of the Greek god Zeus, and a statue of a griffin grasping the wheel of fate of the Roman god Nemesis, have been reported by the Times of Israel as the ones broken.
A potential breakthrough has been tabled in the dispute between An Garda Síochána (Irish police) headquarters and staff associations. The announcement comes after Friday’s meeting between management and all four garda associations. Both sides have been locked in discussions for weeks attempting to break the deadlock which has seen rank and file gardaí (officers) withdraw from voluntary overtime for five consecutive Tuesdays. Ronan Slevin from the Garda Representative Association (GRA) told waiting media after the meeting that management had made a set of proposals to the staff association. "We are going back to our executives to consider those and meeting back here again on Monday morning," he said. "We are happy with the proposals but the executive have to make their own decisions first before we make any further comment. "
The two largest hacktivist groups in the Ukraine conflict have vowed to de-escalate cyber-attacks and comply with new rules of engagement published by a war watchdog. On Wednesday, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) issued the first list of rules for civilian hackers ever created. Dubbed a "Geneva Code of cyber-war", it was initially criticised as unworkable. But now Ukrainian and Russian hackers say they will comply with the rules. Since the invasion of Ukraine there has been a steady stream of disruptive cyber-attacks against public services in both Ukraine and Russia with varying degrees of impact. Hacktivist groups have been using largely unsophisticated forms of cyber-attack, but successfully temporarily disrupted banks, companies, pharmacies, hospitals, railway networks and civilian government services for Ukrainian and Russian citizens.
The parents of a 14-year-old boy who fatally shot two people inside a luxury shopping mall in central Bangkok have asked for forgiveness. A letter, written in Thai by the boy's father and released to the media, states the family is cooperating fully with authorities in the legal process. The boy faces charges of murder after he opened fire on Tuesday inside the Siam Paragon mall - one of the most-visited shopping centres in Asia. His motives remain unclear. In the letter the parents said their son was now in the juvenile observation and protection department as they expressed their "profound sense of regret". "We offer our deepest apologies to the victims, the families of the deceased and the injured from the recent shooting incident that occurred as the result of our son's actions at the Siam Paragon department store," the statement says.
France's government is working hard to contain a national panic over bedbugs, as a Paris school becomes the latest building hit by a reported infestation. Senior officials from the health, economy and transport ministries are meeting on Friday at the prime minister's office to co-ordinate a plan of action against the insects. They are expected to speed up proposals for a national observatory on bedbugs. Their aim is to establish an accurate picture of the phenomenon. Entomologists and health experts have warned that although there has been an undoubted surge in the bedbug population - and not just in France - many recent sightings are false, and there is a risk of unwarranted hysteria. Nicolas Roux de Bézieux, creator of the pest control website badbugs. fr, says in three out of four calls he gets from concerned homeowners, the problems turn out not to have been caused by bedbugs.
A top campaign aide to embattled US Congressman George Santos has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud. Nancy Marks, who appeared in court on Thursday, admitted she falsified some of the campaign's financial records. She reported a fake $500,000 (£410,000) loan that Mr Santos claimed to have given the campaign, prosecutors say. It is the latest trouble for the Republican lawmaker, who has himself been indicted on several charges. During her court appearance, Ms Marks told the judge: "I knew that the loan had not been made," the New York Times reported. The false reports meant the campaign qualified for the fundraising benchmarks needed to receive financial support from the national Republican Party committee. Prosecutors also say the campaign reported false contributions from at least 10 members of Mr Santos' family.
Kenyan President William Ruto will be travelling to China later this month to seek a $1bn (£820m) loan to pay for stalled road projects, his deputy Rigathi Gachagua has said. Mr Gachagua told local-language Inooro FM radio that many contractors had abandoned projects around the country as they were not getting paid for their work. He said while Kenya was already heavily in debt to China, the president would ask for an extra $1bn while seeking a longer repayment period for the money that is already owed. He said the president would tell the Chinese that “we admit we owe you money, can we talk so that you add more time, we pay more slowly, and can you add some little more money to finish building our roads? ”. Kenya owes China more than $8bn from loans mostly contracted during the former government under President Uhuru Kenyatta for infrastructure projects. 
A man attempting to row across the Pacific Ocean in a homemade boat has been rescued by a cruise ship after his boat capsized. Tom Robinson, 24, hoped to become the youngest person to complete the feat. He was found sitting on top of his boat with no clothes on, 100 nautical miles south-west off the coast of Vanuatu, a post on his website said. Local media reports say he was treated for sunburn and dehydration aboard the ship, but is in otherwise good health. Mr Robinson's record-breaking attempt began when he set off from Peru in July last year. He was hoping to arrive in Cairns, Australia, by December. He was on the last leg of his trip, after leaving the city of Luganville in Vanuatu on Monday. Speaking to ABC Australia from the country last week, Mr Robinson had said this final part of the journey would be the "make-or-break leg".
A drone attack on a Syrian military academy  ceremony in the western city of Homs has killed at least 89 people, Syria's health ministry says. The explosive-laden drones targeted a graduation ceremony attended by cadets' families, and women and children were among the dead. A UK-based monitoring group said 116 people had been killed. The Syrian army blamed the attack on "terrorist groups backed by known international forces". There was no immediate claim from the rebels and jihadists battling the government in the country's civil war. The drone attack is believed to have been launched from opposition-held areas north-west of Homs. Later, the monitoring group Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR), reported that 11 civilians had been killed in government bombardments on several cities, towns and villages in the opposition stronghold of Idlib province and Aleppo.
Senegal’s government has maintained a ban it imposed on the social media app TikTok in August. Authorities had banned the app on accusations that it was “the preferred network for malicious people to broadcast hateful and subversive messages that threaten the country’s stability”. Senegal's Communications Minister Moussa Bocar Thiam on Thursday said that TikTok will only be reinstated if the company signs an agreement to allow the removal of accounts that promote what he described as inflammatory content. "For the time being, the restriction is being maintained pending the conclusion of a comprehensive written agreement," Mr Thiam said, following discussions with representatives of the company. The TikTok ban followed the arrest of opposition leader Ousmane Sonko.
Algerian authorities have tightened health measures at its borders to limit the spread of bedbugs, which have swept across France. The health ministry in the North African country said it was introducing "health monitoring and disinfecting of aircraft, ships, and vehicles at entry points". It comes amid concern that the blood-sucking insects could come into Algeria due to the high number of people who travel from France. The ministry, however, said no bedbug infestations had been reported in the country while urging vigilance. Neighbouring Morocco has already announced measures to limit the risk of bedbugs spreading into its territory.
Zimbabwe’s government has introduced restrictions to control a cholera outbreak that is suspected to have killed more than 100 people. The measures include suspending some social gatherings and restricting the number of people allowed to attend funerals in areas affected by the outbreak, which include many districts across the country and parts of the capital, Harare. Shaking hands and the serving of food at the funerals have also been banned. The health ministry had on Wednesday announced 100 suspected cholera deaths, 30 of which had been confirmed through laboratory tests. The ministry also confirmed 905 cholera cases out of more than 4,600 suspected cases. Zimbabwe is prone to frequent cholera outbreaks.
Armed separatists in Cameroon say they have publicly "executed" at close range two kidnapped civilians they accused of spying for the army. A local administrator in Guzang village in the north-west said investigations were under way. This follows the release of a video which showed two men sitting on a road and then being shot dead at close range. Separatists have been fighting in the two English speaking regions of Cameroon since 2017. More than 800,000 people have been displaced. Rights groups have condemned government troops and separatists for killings, rapes, torture and burning homes and schools.
An armed man demanding to speak to the Wisconsin governor was arrested in the state capitol, posted bail, and returned - only to be arrested again. The shirtless man, who had a holstered handgun, was taken into custody on Wednesday afternoon for illegally carrying a firearm in the building. But he posted bail and returned that evening with an assault-style rifle. Governor Tony Evers, a Democrat, was not in his capitol office at the time, according to a state official. But the governor's office itself declined to comment, telling the BBC "we do not comment on specific security threats or the governor's security detail". Mr Evers had been present in the Capitol earlier on Wednesday to meet individuals testifying against a series of bills.
A teenage suspect has been arrested in connection with the murder of social justice activist Ryan Carson who was stabbed multiple times on a New York street while returning from a wedding. Brian Dowling, 18, has been charged with murder and criminal possession of a weapon, police said. Mr Carson, 32, was killed near a bus station in Brooklyn's Crown Heights neighbourhood early on 2 October. Police said the attacker had been "acting agitated" before the assault. Authorities initially withheld Mr Dowling's identity until they had enough probable cause to make an arrest, local media reported. Footage showed the teenager being led away in tears on Thursday morning by detectives executing a search warrant at his home, barely one block away from his alleged attack.
A Russian attack on the village of Hroza, south-east of Kharkiv, has killed at least 51 people, including an eight-year-old boy ar a funeral, Ukraine says. Villagers were attending a wake for a local resident when a missile struck at 15:15 local time (13:15 BST). Ukraine's defence ministry said there were no military targets in the area - only civilians. Kharkiv regional head Oleh Synyehubov described the attack as one of the region's "bloodiest crimes". He confirmed that everyone who died were residents of the village, and that today's attack killed 20% of its population. "One-fifth of this village has died in a single terrorist attack," he said on national television.
A man who set off smoke bombs in a crowded New York subway carriage before shooting 10 people has been sentenced to 10 concurrent life terms in prison. Frank James, 64, had pleaded guilty in January to 10 counts of terrorism, one for each person shot, in the 12 April 2022 attack. Prosecutors said he planned the attack for years to inflict maximum damage. All the victims survived but "were left with long-lasting physical and psychological damage". According to reporters inside the courtroom on Thursday, one of the victims addressed James and said: "You did something terribly evil. Your mother would be ashamed. " The gunman was given 10 life sentences for each person that was shot and wounded, plus 10 additional years on a weapons charge, by US District Court Judge WIlliam Kuntz.
Canada's Governor General Mary Simon has apologised for a top Canadian honour awarded to a former Nazi soldier nearly four decades ago. Peter Savaryn, a former chancellor of the University of Alberta, was given the Order of Canada in 1987. It has since emerged that Mr Savaryn served in Nazi Waffen SS units. The apology comes a fortnight after a row in Canada's parliament over an invite to an elderly Ukrainian man who had fought with Nazi Germany. Yaroslav Hunka, 98, was applauded in the House of Commons by lawmakers not aware of his history, during a visit by Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky. Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called the incident "deeply embarrassing", and the Speaker of the House, Anthony Rota, took responsibility for inviting Mr Hunka and resigned.
Russia has held a "final successful test" of a nuclear-powered cruise missile, Vladimir Putin has claimed. The president's comments came after his spokesman rejected a New York Times report that testing of the weapon, known as the Burevestnik, was imminent. The experimental weapon, first announced in 2018, has been hailed as having a potentially unlimited range. It is said to be powered by a nuclear reactor and is capable of carrying a nuclear warhead. But little is officially known of its capabilities and there are reports that previous tests have failed. President Putin's account has not been independently confirmed and there has been no word so far from the Russian defence ministry.
US President Joe Biden's administration is to build a section of border wall in southern Texas in an effort to stop rising levels of immigration. About 20 miles (32km) will be built in Starr County along its border with Mexico, where officials report high numbers of crossings. Building a border wall was a signature policy of Donald Trump as president and fiercely opposed by Democrats. In 2020, Mr Biden promised he would not build another foot of wall if elected. His administration passed a proclamation soon after taking office that said building a wall across the southern border "is not a serious policy solution". On Thursday, however, Mr Biden said he "can't stop" the construction of the border wall because the funding for it had already been appropriated. When asked whether he believes the wall could work, he replied simply: "no"
A US senator's wife hit and killed a jaywalker with her car in 2018, according to a police report cited by US media. The New Jersey crash is briefly mentioned in an indictment that alleges Nadine Menendez and her husband Robert, a New Jersey senator, were part of a massive bribery scheme involving gold, cash and a car. Richard Koop, 49, died in the December 2018 crash. Ms Menendez was not charged. Details about the crash, which occurred on a cold winter evening in Bogota, New Jersey, were outlined in a Bogota Police Department report cited in the New York Times and northjersey. com. According to the report, police responded to calls of a pedestrian hit by a car about 19:35 EST (24:35 BST) on 12 December 2018.
South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has officially launched a new border force in a bid to tighten the country's porous borders. The inauguration took place in the town of Musina, home to the busy Beitbridge border post with Zimbabwe. Mr Ramaphosa said increasing numbers of undocumented foreign nationals had "exacerbated many of the country's social and economic problems". Immigration is one of South Africa's most pressing political issues. Managing its borders has become disorganised, with pressure on the government to do more to reduce the numbers of people coming into sub-Saharan Africa's most developed country from its neighbours. At the same time, xenophobia by political parties is fanning flames ahead of the 2024 elections, to mobilise support from dissatisfied South Africans.
France says it will begin withdrawing its troops from Niger as early as this week. There was a diplomatic fallout between the two countries following a coup in the West African country two months ago. France refused to acknowledge the new military government in its former colony, leading to protests in the capital Niamey. After refusing to leave for months, France now seems keen to send the message that it wants to get out of Niger as swiftly as possible. More than 400 soldiers stationed near the border with Mali will be the first to leave, possibly starting Thursday. Another 1,000 troops are in a military base in Niamey, where protesters have been camped out for weeks demanding their departure, saying they’ve failed to stop attacks by Islamist insurgents. 
Police in Uganda have fired tear gas to prevent supporters of the main opposition candidate Bobi Wine from reaching his home on the outskirts of the capital Kampala. Earlier he was picked up by security officers at Entebbe Airport after returning from a trip abroad. Bobi Wine stood against President Yoweri Museveni in the last election and has frequently been arrested. Plain-clothes security operatives grabbed Bobi Wine as he got off the plane at Entebbe airport. Against his will, he was driven to his home in the capital Kampala. This move appears to have been aimed at ensuring there was no chance for opposition supporters to hold a welcome rally. Elections are more than two years away. But Bobi Wine has already begun campaigning and wants another go at unseating Yoweri Museveni.
A man from the Philippines has appeared in court charged in relation to the largest ever drug seizure in the Republic of Ireland. Officials recovered over two tonnes of cocaine after a cargo ship, MV Matthew, was stormed by armed forces off the coast of Cork last month. Harold Estoesta, 30, appeared before Midleton District Court in east County Cork on Thursday. He was arrested on 27 September onboard the Panamanian-registered vessel and later questioned at Cobh Garda station before being charged. Mr Estoesta is charged with conspiracy to possess and supply controlled substances, namely cocaine. Evidence of the accused's arrest, charge and caution was shared to the court by an Irish police officer.
Russia will set up a naval base in the separatist Georgian region of Abkhazia, its leader has told Russian media. Aslan Bzhania told the Izvestia tabloid his Moscow-backed region would soon host a "permanent point of deployment" for Russia on the Black Sea coast. It comes as Ukraine increases its attacks on Russia's Black Sea fleet. Two weeks ago, Kyiv struck the fleet's headquarters in Crimea. The Kremlin has refused to comment on the alleged deal. Georgia's foreign ministry said it would be a "flagrant violation of Georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity". Abkhazia, which already hosts a Russian military base, lies in the north-western corner of Georgia and borders Russia.
Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine has said he was "grabbed" by "goons" and put under house arrest on his return from South Africa. The singer-turned-politician is the strongest challenger to President Yoweri Museveni, who has held office for almost 40 years. The 41-year-old has been arrested numerous times and has faced several charges, including treason. Police denied arresting Bobi Wine, saying he was merely "escorted" home. "Disregard rumours of his arrest by propagandists," the police said in a statement. Bobi Wine, a former pop star whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, made a failed bid for the presidency in 2021 in a tense election against President Museveni, 79.
Kenyan lawmakers are calling on the government to ban the sale of a brand of imported nicotine pouches widely sold in the country. Health Minister Susan Nakhumicha told parliament that Velo was a rebrand of a British American Tobacco (BAT) nicotine pouch commonly known as Lyft, which was declared illegal in 2022 by the then Health Minister Mutahi Kagwe. Mr Kagwe ordered the deregistration of Lyft after claims that it was licensed and registered illegally. "Velo is imported from Hungary and distributed in the country by BAT Kenya Limited. No local manufacturer of nicotine pouches exists in the country therefore all nicotine pouches are imported," Ms Nakhumicha said. The BBC has asked BAT for comment but has not had a response. According to health experts, Kenya is experiencing a resurgence of highly addictive nicotine products which were banned by the Ministry of Health. 
Gardaí (Irish police) have opened more than 1,350 lines of inquiry into an explosion at a County Donegal service station that killed 10 people. More than 900 statements have also been taken since the blast in Creeslough on 7 October 2022. The victims - four men, three women, two teenagers and a five-year-old girl - were from the village or surrounding areas. As the first year anniversary of the tragedy approaches, the cause is still unknown and an investigation by gardaí is ongoing. The investigation is being co-ordinated from Milford Garda station.
Mauritius' highest court has decriminalised gay sex, saying the ban reflected colonial-era, rather than indigenous values. British colonialists first criminalised "sodomy" in 1898, but the law has not been enforced in recent years. The gay man who brought the case said he was "now free to love whoever I want to without fear". The ruling comes at a time of rising homophobia and tougher anti-gay laws in some African states. Most notably, Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni signed a controversial Anti-Homosexuality law in May that imposed the death penalty for "aggravated homosexuality", which refers to sex with children or rape. Many people in Uganda and other African states argue that homosexuality is "un-African", and contradicts their religious beliefs.
At least three people have been killed in the collapse of a residential building in the Cuban capital, Havana. The collapse happened late on Tuesday night local time, but it was not until Wednesday afternoon that rescue workers found the body of a 79-year-old resident under the rubble. The two other victims were rescue workers who were searching the building when a second collapse happened. Havana is known for its historic houses but many are dangerously dilapidated.
Two former students have won their case against the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama after accusing staff of failing to properly investigate allegations of sexual assault. Alyse McCamish and Sydney Feder, both 26, waived their right to anonymity. They sued the college for negligence in the Central London County Court. The judge found the college did not properly investigate or respond to their allegations that they were sexually assaulted by another student. Ms McCamish has been awarded £14,000 in damages and Ms Feder £5,000, with the RWCMD also having to pay court costs which have yet to be determined. The judge also ruled that universities do have a duty of care to students to carry out reasonable investigations when they receive allegations of sexual assault from their students.
Sisi  have been gripped by the dramatic start to their country's unexpectedly early presidential election campaign. President Abdul Fattah al-Sisi's re-election - now for a six-year term - seems virtually guaranteed even as his government grapples with record inflation and massive debt. Yet an outspoken critic, the left-wing politician and former MP Ahmed al-Tantawi, who hopes to be his main opponent, has put on a political campaign of a kind that Egypt has rarely seen in recent years. Keen to build momentum, President Sisi hosted a huge, three-day televised conference called "Story of the Homeland" to relate his narrative of the past decade and officially announce his candidacy. "Just as I responded to the calls of Egyptians before, today I respond to their call again, and I decided to nominate myself for you to complete the dream in a new presidential term," Mr Sisi told the audience of officials and notables to cheers and applause.
Banks in Tanzania are encouraging their customers to switch to electronic payments and online banking to minimise the possible disruption of financial services during the coming rains, which are expected to be heavier than usual because of El Niño. This a natural climate phenomenon that occurs about every two to seven years - and affects weather patterns globally. According to the Tanzania Meteorological Authority, El Niño could disrupt the coming short rainy season that lasts from October to December. Typically El Niño leads to flooding in northern areas, while some areas of the south get less rain than normal. The central bank said this could have repercussions for essential sectors of the economy. It also urged financial institutions to increase transaction limits for customers and take out insurance to cover loans given to clients.
South African supermarkets are rationing eggs as the country grapples with a shortage of poultry products amid a severe outbreak of bird-flu . Some supermarkets have limited the number of eggs that customers can buy to six, local media report. Major retail chain Woolworths told local media outlet News24 that it had "implemented a limit on whole egg purchases in our stores to six eggs per customer". Pick n Pay, another chain, reportedly asked people to "shop responsibly" and would limit purchases per customer to one or two egg packs. Producers have been warning of a shortage of eggs and poultry meat due to the outbreak and impact of power cuts on the industry. The agriculture ministry last week said that over 2. 5 million chickens had been killed, with five of the eight provinces affected by the outbreak.
The US has sent roughly 1. 1 million bullets seized from Iran last year to Ukraine, its military has said. The US Central Command (Centcom), which oversees operations in the Middle East, says the rounds were confiscated from a ship bound for Yemen in December. Ukraine's Western allies recently warned that their production lines were struggling to keep up with the rate at which Ukraine was using ammunition. Centcom says the Iranian rounds were transferred to Ukraine on Monday. It added the ammunition was 7. 62mm calibre used in Soviet-era rifles and light machine-guns. While the number is significant, it represents a small percentage of the hundreds of millions of rounds already shipped by allies to Ukraine. The US has already provided more than 200 million bullets and grenades. The Iranian munitions were originally seized by US naval forces from a stateless ship named MARWAN 1 on 9 December, it said.
Two fishing businesses in Killybegs are to get more than €12m (£10. 4m) in Irish government grants as part of a €50m (£43. 3m) investment in the port. The port in west Donegal is one of Ireland’s main fishing harbours. The Irish fishing industry was one of the main losers from the EU’s Brexit deal with the UK. The government has set up an EU-backed fund to help mitigate some of the impacts. Gallagher Bros (Fish Merchants) and Killybegs Seafoods have been allocated the highest grants under the scheme, totalling €12. 1m (£10. 5m), and are spending a total of €31m (£26. 8m). Bord Iascaigh Mhara (BIM), the seafood development agency, said the investment was aimed at making Killybegs a more attractive location for fishing vessels to land catch that might otherwise go to the UK, mainland Europe, Norway, Iceland and the Faroe Islands.
Five Israeli men have gone on trial in Cyprus, charged with the gang rape of a 20-year-old British woman last month. The alleged attack is said to have taken place at a hotel in Ayia Napa, a popular tourist resort. A packed courtroom in Famagusta, just north of Ayia Napa, was filled with relatives of the defendants who turned up in a show of support. The defendants are all aged 19 or 20 and come from the Israeli Arab town of Majd al-Krum. They deny the charges. At the hearing on Thursday, their lawyers complained that they had not yet seen key evidence, including the DNA report. One claimed the report could show his two clients were not in the room at the time of the alleged attack on 3 September. The state prosecutor said the DNA report would be ready by the end of the day.
A scheme that allows French day trippers to visit Guernsey using their national ID cards instead of a passport is planned to continue next year. The arrangement was introduced earlier this year, and is credited by a ferry operator with boosting visitor numbers this summer. It was due to expire in September, but French and island authorities want the deal extended until the end of 2024. The Committee for Home Affairs said it was eager to maximize travel opportunities for French nationals before the anticipated launch of the UK's Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) system in late 2024.
The Biden family's dog, Commander, has been moved out of the White House after a series of biting incidents. It is still being decided what will happen to the two-year-old German Shepherd, a spokeswoman for First Lady Jill Biden said. Just last week, Commander bit a Secret Service agent who required medical treatment at the scene. It was the 11th time the dog has bitten a guard at the White House complex or at the family home in Delaware. "The President and First Lady care deeply about the safety of those who work at the White House and those who protect them every day," the spokeswoman, Elizabeth Alexander, said in a statement on Wednesday. "They remain grateful for the patience and support of the US Secret Service and all involved, as they continue to work through solutions. Commander is not presently on the White House campus while next steps are evaluated. "
A woman in her 60s has died after a hit-and-run incident in Dublin. She was hit by a car on the Phibsborough Road at 21:10 (local time) on Wednesday. The woman was pronounced dead at the scene. A section of the road remains closed. An Garda Síochána (Irish Police) are appealing for any witnesses to contact them.

Kenya's Foreign Minister Alfred Mutua has been demoted as controversy rages over plans to deploy police to Haiti to fight gangs. Main opposition leader Raila Odinga was the latest to oppose the move, saying the deployment would risk the lives of Kenyan police. Mr Mutua's demotion to tourism minister was part of the first major cabinet reshuffle by President William Ruto. In August, the president criticised some of his ministers as clueless. Mr Ruto took office in August last year with the promise to improve the economy and better the lives of lower-income earners. But he has faced a series of opposition-led protests over the high cost of living and tax hikes. The president said in a statement late on Wednesday that the reshuffle was meant to "optimise performance and enhance delivery as set out in the administration's manifesto".
India's financial crimes agency has arrested an opposition MP over corruption allegations. Sanjay Singh, from the governing Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of Delhi, is the latest party leader to be interrogated by federal agencies. Authorities are investigating alleged fraud related to a now-scrapped liquor sale policy in the state. Mr Singh, who denies the allegations, was arrested on Wednesday evening after hours of questioning. Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was also arrested in the same case in February. The AAP has strongly denied the allegations, accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which runs the federal government, of playing "dirty politics". Singh's lawyer told the BBC that his arrest was "arbitrary and illegal". "He has nothing to do with money laundering and the charges levelled by the agencies against Mr Sanjay Singh are laughable," Dhiraj Singh said.
The main opposition party in Uganda says its leader Robert Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine has been arrested at Entebbe International Airport as he returned from abroad. The National Unity Party had been planning to hold rallies and described his arrest as "cowardly". A video recording on social media showed Bobi Wine being grabbed by a group of men as he stepped out of the plane. Screen grabs from another video appeared to show the leader at his home later, in the company of the Leader of Opposition in Parliament, Mathias Mpuuga. Ahead of Mr Kyagulanyi's return, the police had said a planned procession from the airport was illegal. President Yoweri Museveni - who has been in power since 1986 - has been criticised for being increasingly intolerant of the opposition. Bobi Wine has been arrested numerous times and has faced many charges including treason.
Actor Julia Ormond has filed a lawsuit against Harvey Weinstein, claiming he sexually assaulted her in 1995 after a dinner in New York. The Legends of the Fall star is also seeking damages from Disney, Miramax and her former talent agency who she says failed to protect her from abuse. The case was filed in New York under a law that allows sex cases to be filed outside of the statute of limitations. Weinstein is currently serving a 23-year prison sentence for rape. Ormond - best known for roles in 90s films First Knight, Smilla's Sense of Snow and Sabrina - alleges that her career never recovered after the attack by Weinstein. The suit argues that at the peak of her career, she and Weinstein returned from a business dinner to an apartment provided by the production company, where he "stripped naked and forced her to perform oral sex on him".
Over 75,000 union workers at healthcare provider Kaiser Permanente have gone on strike, beginning the largest walkout by health workers in US history. The three-day work stoppage involves nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians in five US states and Washington DC. Nearly 13 million patients could be impacted by the strike, which follows stalled contract negotiations between the unions and Kaiser Permanente. Hospitals and emergency facilities will remain open throughout the strike. In a statement on Wednesday, Kaiser Permanente said that it had made "a lot of progress" in discussions with the unions overnight and "remained committed to reaching a new agreement".
Police have launched a manhunt for a suspect accused of shooting five people at a university in Maryland on Tuesday, officials have said. Students at Morgan State University in Baltimore were gathered for homecoming festivities when gunfire erupted and scattered the crowd. Four men and one woman, aged 18 to 22, were injured. Police said the number of shooters remained unknown. There have been 531 mass shootings this year, Gun Violence Archive data shows. The shooting on Tuesday night at the historically black university disrupted the school's homecoming events, an important tradition at historically black colleges and typically one of the biggest events of the year. Students dressed in suits and gowns were heading to a campus ball when the sound of gunshots rang, sending dozens fleeing into nearby buildings.
Former crypto CEO Sam Bankman-Fried has appeared in a New York court to answer to charges that his bankrupted financial empire was "built on lies". Prosecutors told the court on Wednesday that the former FTX boss stole billions from clients and investors to "commit fraud on a massive scale". His lawyers deny all charges, saying the so-called "crypto king" is a "math nerd" who was acting in "good faith". The blockbuster trial is expected to last about six weeks. Mr Bankman-Fried rose to fame after founding FTX in 2019, once one of the world's biggest cryptocurrency exchanges. "It looked like Sam Bankman-Fried was on top of the world," lead prosecutor Thane Rehn told the packed Manhattan courtroom as the trial kicked off. "All of it was built on lies. "
Italian authorities are still trying to identify all of the 21 victims of Tuesday's deadly bus crash in Venice with DNA . The electric bus crashed through a bridge barrier, and plunged almost 15m (50ft) in the mainland borough of Mestre, before bursting into flames. DNA samples are being used to confirm the identities of those who were not carrying personal documents, prosecutor Bruno Cherchi said. Three children including a baby were among the dead, according to officials. The bus was carrying 39 tourists from the centre of Venice to a campsite. On Wednesday evening, relatives began arriving in Italy from other countries to identify the dead. Mayor Luigi Brugnaro said a huge tragedy had taken place. "An apocalyptic scene, there are no words," he said on social media.
A couple killed in a bear attack at Canada's Banff National Park have been identified by family as long-term partners who loved the outdoors. Doug Inglis and Jenny Gusse, both 62, were killed by a grizzly bear on Friday while out backcountry camping. Officials said the bear that attacked them was an older female that had a low body fat for this time of year. Two cans of bear spray were found at the scene, they added, and the couple's food was hung appropriately. The couple was identified by their nephew, Colin Inglis, who told the CBC that the two were on day five of a week-long trip in the backcountry when they were killed.
EU member states have come to an agreement on overhauling their rules on responding to big increases in irregular migration. The deal came after weeks of haggling over the EU's crisis mechanism and after a steep rise in arrivals on the Italian island of Lampedusa. Under the plan, countries facing crisis would be able to request "solidarity contributions" from other states. European Commission head Ursula von der Leyen praised "a real game changer". She said the deal meant that talks could move forward with the European Parliament, with the aim of securing a migration pact in time for European Parliament elections in June 2024. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz spoke of a "historic turning point".
The Princess of Wales has written a message of support on a care package destined for Ukraine. Catherine penned the note while visiting a community hub for Ukrainians in Bracknell, Berkshire. The hub, based at the Lexicon shopping complex, supports Ukrainians who have settled in the area since the start of the war in 2022. The princess wrote "we are all thinking of you" on the parcel, which contains supplies such as food and toiletries.
A Kenyan hospital worker caught by the BBC trying to steal a baby has been sentenced to 25 years in jail. Fred Leparan, who worked at Nairobi's Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital, was filmed accepting $2,500 (£2,000) to sell a baby boy under the hospital's care. He was arrested in 2020 and found guilty of child trafficking, child neglect and conspiracy to commit crime. His co-accused Selina Adundo was sentenced to six years in jail or a $2,000 fine. An Africa Eye reporter had initially approached Leparan posing as a potential buyer, after hearing from a source that the senior clinical social worker was involved in illegal child trafficking from the government-run hospital. Leparan asked the undercover reporter, who said she and her husband had struggled to conceive, only cursory questions about their situation before agreeing to sell the baby boy.
Singer Grimes has filed a legal petition over parental rights of the three children she shares with Elon Musk. Court records show that Grimes, whose legal name is Claire Boucher, filed a petition "to establish parental relationship" on 29 September. Grimes, 35, previously accused Mr Musk of blocking access to one of her sons in a now-deleted social media post. The 52-year-old Mr Musk has at least 11 children with three different women. The details of the petition, filed to the Superior Court of San Francisco, are not publicly available. Neither Grimes nor Mr Musk could be reached for comment on the legal filing. Grimes and Musk have three children: X Æ A-1, known as X, who was born in May 2020, and a daughter named Exa Dark Sideræl - known as Y - who was born by surrogacy in December 2021.
At least 21 people including several children have died after a bus crashed off a flyover near Venice and burst into flames, officials say. The electric bus broke through a barrier and plunged almost 15m (50ft) near railway tracks in Mestre, which is connected to Venice by a bridge. Five Ukrainians, one German and the Italian driver were among the dead, city prefect Michele Di Bari said. Venice Mayor Luigi Brugnaro said a "huge tragedy" had taken place. "An apocalyptic scene, there are no words," he said on social media. CCTV footage of the flyover from Tuesday night showed the vehicle driving past another bus, before toppling off the carriageway. One rescuer spoke of a "tragedy of young people, if not very young people, except for a few adults".
Senegalese writing duo Mame Bougouma Diene and Woppa Diallo have won this year's prestigious Caine Prize for African writing, making it the first time a pair has won the award. Their story A Soul of Small Places is inspired by Diallo's experience of gender-based violence in Senegal. Her story weaves through themes of violence, revenge, love and loss. "The story is simply my life. It's the struggles I've been through that have inspired me," Diallo told the BBC. It was praised for its deep storytelling and ability to celebrate love while also addressing pressing global issues. The couple told BBC's Newsday programme the story was written in six days in an almost "possessed" state and was a powerful collaboration between the two.
Pakistan has ordered all unauthorised Afghan asylum seekers - an estimated 1. 7 million people - to leave the country by November. A spike in attacks along the two countries' border, which Islamabad blames on Afghanistan-based operatives, has escalated tensions this year. It has also fuelled resentment in Islamabad, which on Tuesday announced a crackdown on "illegal" migrants. The Taliban government urged Pakistan to rethink its "unacceptable" move. Afghanistan's rulers have repeatedly denied providing refuge for militants who target Pakistan. Last week, a blast at a mosque in Mastung city, near the border with Afghanistan, killed at least 50 people during a religious celebration. Pakistan's Interior Minister Sarfraz Bugti did not appear to directly reference that and another attack in Balochistan province when he announced the crackdown order on "illegal" Afghans on Tuesday.
The Colombian army has apologised for killing thousands of civilians and falsely passing them off as left-wing guerrillas to boost its kill rate during the country's armed conflict. An inquiry found that 6,402 civilians were murdered by the military between 2002 and 2008 and passed off as rebels in a practice dubbed "false positives". In an event attended by mothers of some of the victims, the defence minister called the killings "shameful". "They were not rebels," he added. The commander of the Colombian army, Luis Ospina, said that "painful acts were committed by members of the national army that should never have happened". Victims were young men mainly from poor neighbourhoods in and around the capital, Bogotá. They were lured with promises of work to rural parts of Colombia, where soldiers executed them. They were then dressed in guerrilla fatigues or had weapons placed in their hands.
The US has announced sanctions on 25 China-based firms and individuals allegedly involved in the production of chemicals used to make fentanyl. Fentanyl, a potent opioid used as a painkiller or sedative, plays a major role in the US drug crisis. Attorney General Merrick Garland said the drug's supply chain "often starts with chemical companies in China". China criticised the imposition of sanctions, saying the fentanyl crisis was rooted in the United States itself. "We firmly oppose the United States' sanction and prosecution against Chinese entities and individuals, and the severe infringement of the lawful rights and interests of the relevant enterprises and persons," the Chinese foreign ministry told AFP news agency. "The Chinese government has been strictly cracking down on drug crimes. . . and we deploy the harshest control on precursor chemicals.
Nigerian police have detained Afrobeats star Naira Marley for questioning over the death of a fellow singer. MohBad's mysterious death led to a huge outpouring of grief among his fans, who demanded a thorough investigation. Outrage was directed at Marley, with whom he had feuded after he split from the musician's label, Marlian Records. Marley, who previously denied involvement in MohBad's death, said he had returned from abroad to assist with the investigation. "It's important I do my part for Imole," Marley said, referring to another name by which MohBad was known. "I'll be meeting with the police with hopes for the truth to be uncovered and for justice to prevail," he added on X on Tuesday.
A woman in Australia who died after eating a mushroom beef Wellington poisoning has been mourned by hundreds at a memorial service. Heather Wilkinson, 66, was one of three guests who died after a July lunch in the town of Leongatha, in a case that has gripped the nation. Police believe that they consumed lethal death cap mushrooms in the dish cooked by Erin Patterson. Ms Patterson has said she is innocent and used the mushrooms by accident. She was named as a suspect by police after she and her two children appeared unharmed after the lunch. But she has not been arrested, nor does she face charges. Ms Patterson has also said she herself was admitted to hospital after the meal due to stomach pains.
Moscow's court has sentenced journalist Marina Ovsyannikova, who protested live on air against Russia's invasion of Ukraine, to 8. 5 years in jail. The 45-year-old, who was tried in absentia, was found guilty of "spreading knowingly false information" about the Russian armed forces. She fled Russia with her daughter last year after escaping from house arrest. She describes the charges as "absurd". Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. But Russia's legislation makes it illegal to call the war an "invasion". State-controlled news organisations are told to describe it as a "special military operation". Dozens of people have been either jailed or fined for "discrediting" the country's military - in what rights groups say is an unprecedented crackdown on dissent under President Vladimir Putin.
Growth in the Irish economy is slowing after a period of rapid expansion following the Covid-19 pandemic, a leading think tank has said. The Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI) has revised down its growth forecast for the domestic economy this year from 3. 5% to 1. 8%. It said inflation, rising interest rates and falling demand for some exports are weighing on growth. However, the ESRI added that the economy is still operating at capacity. It said that low unemployment is likely to be maintained for the foreseeable future. "Notwithstanding the normalising activity domestically and the slowdown in international trade, the domestic Irish economy is currently operating at capacity," the ESRI said
A small boat carrying 280 migrants has landed in Spain's Canary Islands. The vessel arrived on the remote island of El Hierro, some 380km (238 miles) off Africa's western coast, on Tuesday. Rescue workers said those onboard were of sub-Saharan African origin and it was the largest number of migrants ever to arrive in the archipelago in one go. The crossing to the Canary Islands is one of the most commonly used and dangerous routes to Europe for migrants from Africa. "I've never seen a boat with so many people on board," journalist and former migration adviser Txema Santana said on social media after the vessel arrived. Since the start of the year, 140 people have died or disappeared trying to make the crossing, according to the International Organization for Migration.
Streaming service provider Netflix has announced that it will end its free service in Kenya next month as it looks for ways to raise its revenue amid market competition. In 2021, Netflix has allowed users in the East African country to access a limited selection of content without paying for a subscription. This was an attempt to tap into Kenya's growing streaming market. In a statement, Netflix says the free plan will no longer be available from 1 November. "No action will be required, your membership will be automatically cancelled when the free plan ends," the company said. It encouraged its subscribers to upgrade to the various premium plans offered. The move comes months after Netflix reduced subscription prices for its Kenyan subscribers. The streaming giant dropped its rates by 37% amid increasing competition from the likes of Showmax and DStv.
A photo of two Chinese female athletes that made an inadvertent reference to the Tiananmen Square massacre has been censored on Chinese social media. The race numbers for Lin Yuwei and Wu Yanni form "64" - a common allusion to the incident which happened on June 4. Discussions of the incident remain taboo in China, with authorities routinely scrubbing any mention of the topic from the internet. In 1989, troops shot dead hundreds of pro-democracy protesters in Beijing. It remains unclear how many people actually died that day, but human rights groups' estimates range from several hundred to several thousand killed.
Ethiopia's embassy in Sudan's capital, Khartoum, has come under attack from heavy weaponry, a senior Ethiopian official has confirmed. No casualties were reported from Tuesday's onslaught but the embassy was partially damaged, Yibeltal Ayimiro Alemu, the Ethiopian ambassador to Sudan, told the BBC. The Sudanese paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which has been fighting the army since 15 April, has blamed the military for the attack. The Sudanese army has not commented. It is not the first time the Ethiopian embassy in Khartoum has been attacked. An employee of the Ethiopian embassy in Sudan told the BBC that the embassy had been attacked by air strike three weeks ago. A security guard was wounded and windows were shattered, the staff member said. More than 5,000 people have died in the conflict and forced five million others from their homes, according to the UN.
Rescue efforts are ongoing in Nigeria’s north-western Kebbi state after a passenger boat capsized on the River Niger. Officials have told the BBC that four bodies have so far been recovered and 25 people have been rescued. It is not clear how many people were on board the vessel when it overturned on Monday in strong currents common during the rainy season. Some reports suggest it may have been carrying 50 passengers. Such boats are often overloaded and accidents are common on poorly regulated waterways. In June this year at least 106 people drowned in the River Niger in south-western Kwara state when a boat with more than 300 passengers sank.
More than 60 children have been taken to hospital in Jamaica after eating sweets containing cannabis, the country's education minister said. Fayval Williams wrote on X (formerly Twitter) that the primary school pupils were from the St Ann's Bay area - about 80km (50 miles) from the capital, Kingston. She said some children experienced vomiting and hallucinations. None are reported to be in a serious condition. "The doctors & nurses are doing all they can to ensure the students recover," Ms Williams wrote on X, adding that several of the children had to be put on an intravenous (IV) drip. "One little boy said he only had ONE sweetie. That's how potent this product is. DANGER! " Ms Williams said the children were from St Ann's Bay Primary, but local news agencies have reported that students from the nearby Ocho Rios Primary School were affected. 
Prosecutors in Mexico say they have arrested a suspect in the disappearance of five young men from the city of Lagos de Moreno in August. The five childhood friends vanished from a local lookout on 11 August. Images emerged later which showed them kneeling, bound and gagged, at an abandoned building nearby. There has been no trace of them since but security analysts fear they may have fallen victim to a powerful crime gang active in Jalisco state. Mexico's National Search Commission says more than 110,000 people have been reported missing since 1962. The five ranged in age between 19 and 22 and had known each other since they were little. On 11 August they visited a local fair before going to a local lookout near their home town of Lagos de Moreno, in Jalisco state.
A missing girl has been found safe after police used fingerprints left on a ransom note to track her down. Charlotte Sena, 9, disappeared on Saturday while riding her bicycle in New York state, triggering a huge 48-hour search by hundreds of people. A ransom note was later delivered to the family home, which officials said contained the suspect's fingerprints. Police were able to identify him, as the print was on their database linked to a drink-driving incident from 1999. He was located at a property owned by his mother and arrested. "After some resistance, the suspect was taken into custody and immediately the little girl was found in a cabinet," New York Governor Kathy Hochul said at a news conference on Monday night. "She knew she was being rescued. She knew that she was in safe hands.
The main opposition leader in Seychelles, Patrick Herminie, has been charged with witchcraft, along with seven others. Police say the case is related to the discovery of two bodies exhumed from a cemetery on the island of Mahé. He has denied the charges, telling local media that his prosecution is a "political show" to taint his image. Mr Herminie plans to run in the 2025 presidential election under the banner of the United Seychelles Party (USP). A magistrates court on Monday freed him and six of his Seychellois co-accused on bail of 30,000 Seychelles rupees ($2,100; £1,745), but ruled that a Tanzanian suspect should stay in custody until the next court appearance in November.
Clothing brand Abercrombie & Fitch (A&F) says it is investigating sexual allegations against its former CEO. Mike Jeffries has been accused of exploiting men at sex events he hosted around the world. A BBC investigation found an organised network used a middleman to recruit young adult men for the events with Mr Jeffries and his partner Matthew Smith, with some alleging they were abused. Mr Jeffries and Mr Smith did not respond to requests for comment. A&F - which runs about 850 stores worldwide, including its Hollister brand - said that since being contacted by the BBC it had engaged an "outside law firm to conduct an independent investigation" into the claims. It said it was "appalled and disgusted" by the alleged behaviour.
Kenya’s communications regulator has said that the country experienced a record 860 million cyber-attacks in the last 12 months. The regulator said that “the frequency, sophistication and scale of cyber-threats” targeted at Kenya’s critical information infrastructure had increased dramatically. In 2017, Kenya experienced 7. 7 million cyber attacks. In July, a high-profile cyber attack attributed to the pro-Russian hacking group Anonymous Sudan cut off access to more than 5,000 online government services in the country, including visa, passport and driving licence applications and renewals. The attack also disabled online train booking systems and mobile money transactions. The Communications Authority of Kenya on Monday said that 79% of the attacks recorded in the last 12 months were caused by cyber criminals infiltrating the computer systems of organisations.
Kenya’s government has banned public officials from taking non-essential trips abroad as part of efforts to cut spending. This included travel for benchmarking, study, training and research, the country’s Head of Public Service, Felix Koskei, said on Monday. Conferences are also among the events categorised as non-essential. Mr Koskei directed government officials to participate in such events virtually or ask diplomatic officials in host countries to attend. According to local media, officials spent 14bn Kenyan shillings ($94m; £78m) on travel within the first nine months of President William Ruto taking office. “Foreign travel will only be facilitated for engagements in which the government of Kenya’s participation is part of the fulfilment of state obligations," Mr Koskei said, and in events involving “critical decisions impacting on the country’s position”.
Egypt's President Abdul Fattah al-Sisi has confirmed he will stand for a third term in elections scheduled for December. The former army chief has been in power since he helped oust Mohammed Morsi, the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood and the country's first democratically elected president, in 2013 amid mass protests against his rule. Activists say his term in office has been marked by the brutal suppression of all opposition and the collapse of the Egyptian economy. The constitution was changed four years ago to prolong his time in office and attempts by opponents to organise a credible bid for the presidency are reported to have been hampered by Egyptian bureaucracy.
Nigeria’s two largest labour unions have suspended an indefinite strike that was due to start on Tuesday to demand higher wages to help offset the cost of living crisis. It followed hours of deliberations between the unions and the federal government on Monday night in Abuja, the capital. The unions say a deal was signed with the government that it would meet the demands of workers within 30 days. The unions have demanded a monthly minimum wage of about $260 (£215), saying that recent government policies, including the removal of fuel subsidies, have worsened the cost of living crisis. On Sunday, President Bola Tinubu announced a temporary wage increase of about $32 a month for the next six months for lower-paid workers, bringing a monthly minimum salary to $70. He also pledged to lower transport costs.
Australia has begun early voting in a landmark referendum on enacting an Indigenous Voice to Parliament. If approved, the reform would recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in the country's constitution and establish a permanent body for them to advise the government. The country has not had a successful referendum in almost 50 years. Opinion polls had long-shown support for the proposal, but as the vote nears the No side appears to be leading. While the majority of Australians will vote on 14 October, those who are unable to can vote at select polling centres right across the country from Tuesday. The Voice to Parliament was recommended by a historic document in 2017 called the Uluru Statement from the Heart. 
Burger King remains open as usual in Russia despite the brand's owner pledging to leave more than a year ago. Restaurant Brands International (RBI), which owns 15% of the fast-food's franchise business in Russia, told the BBC it had "no new updates to share at this time" on its exit. The firm said in March 2022 that it had started the process to leave Russia. Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, Western companies have been under pressure to leave Russia. Critics accused RBI of "sustaining Putin's regime" by failing to ditch its stake in its Russian business. RBI, one of the world's largest fast-food restaurant companies, has cited its complicated franchise agreement for its difficulty in trying to exit the country.
Republicans are working to expel a US congressman accused of pulling a fire alarm to delay a crucial vote in the House of Representatives. New York Democrat Jamaal Bowman said he activated the alarm by mistake on Saturday while rushing to a vote. It went off as Democrats were trying to stall a vote on a stopgap funding bill keep the federal government operating and avert a shutdown. The alarm triggered an evacuation and police investigation. On Monday, Congresswoman Nicole Malliotakis formally introduced a resolution, backed by 12 other Republicans, to expel her fellow New Yorker from Congress. "Mr Bowman's juvenile actions violated both federal and local law and he must be held accountable," she said. Expulsion from the House requires two-thirds of the chamber in support, a high bar in a chamber that Republicans only narrowly control.
Donald Trump made a passionate opening statement, of sorts, on the first day of his fraud trial in New York. The former president was not giving evidence - instead, he stopped just outside the courtroom to address reporters before the historic hearing began. After a few stern looks at the camera, he launched into a lengthy preview of what his lawyers are expected to argue during the civil case again him, his two adult sons and the Trump Organization. He also lobbed accusations against New York Attorney General Letitia James, who brought the fraud charges and is seeking a fine of $250m (£207m), and Judge Arthur Engoron who already ruled last week that Mr Trump and his business had committed fraud.
A state senator from North Dakota, his wife and their two youngest children, have died in a small plane crash in Utah, officials said on Monday. The plane carrying Doug Larsen and his family crashed shortly after taking off near Moab, Utah, where the aircraft had stopped to refuel on Sunday evening. The pilot of the plane also died in the crash, police said. The Larsens were visiting family in Scottsdale, Arizona. The Grand County Sheriff's Office posted a statement on Facebook saying they were notified about a "plane going into the ground" shortly after taking off from Canyonlands Airfield about 15 miles (24km) north of Moab at approximately 20:30 local time (02:30 GMT). Sheriff's deputies, the Moab County Fire Department and paramedics responded to the scene. Mr Larsen's death was first confirmed by North Dakota's Senate Majority Leader David Hogue in an email to his colleagues, according to the Associated Press.
Eight members of an organ trafficking ring in north-east Pakistan have been arrested, police say. The ring's alleged leader, Fawad Mukhtar, is accused of extracting the kidneys of more than 300 people and transplanting them into rich clients. He had previously been arrested five times for malpractice, but managed to secure bail each time. At least three people died from having their organs harvested in this way, authorities said. The gang was believed to be operating across eastern Punjab province, as well as in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. The transplants were carried out in private homes - often without the patient knowing, the chief minister of Punjab province Mohsin Naqvi said. A car mechanic is said to have worked as Mr Mukhtar's surgical assistant and helped lure vulnerable patients from hospitals.
A strategist who runs an organisation devoted to electing Democratic women who support abortion rights is to replace US senator Dianne Feinstein, who died last week at the age of 90. California Governor Gavin Newsom appointed 44-year-old Laphonza Butler to the role. She will be the only black female in the Senate, and the first LGBTQ+ person to represent California in the chamber. Ms Feinstein, a trailblazer for female politicians, was the oldest senator. Under Californian law, the governor can appoint a senator until the next state-wide election. The state will then hold two concurrent Senate elections in 2024: one special election to finish out Ms Feinstein's term, which ends in January 2025 and the regularly scheduled election for the US Senate seat for a six-year term, ending in 2031.
The ex-CEO of Abercrombie & Fitch and his British partner face allegations of exploitation from men recruited for sex events they hosted around the world. A BBC investigation found a highly organised network used a middleman to find young men for the events with Mike Jeffries and Matthew Smith. Eight men told the BBC they attended these events, some of whom alleged they were exploited or abused. Mr Jeffries and Mr Smith did not respond to requests for comment. But the couple's middleman denied any wrongdoing and said men went into these events "with their eyes wide open". Abercrombie & Fitch (A&F) - which also owns the Hollister brand - said it was "appalled and disgusted" by the alleged behaviour.
A gunman who admitted opening fire at Gerry Hutch's older brother has been sentenced to 22 years in prison. Michael Carroll, of Bride Street, Dublin 8, admitted possession of a firearm with intent to endanger the life of John Hutch on 2 September 2016. He also pleaded guilty to attempting to murder another man, Edward Staunton, in March 2017. Mr Justice Tony Hunt said Carroll was a ruthless and dangerous criminal with a callous contempt for public safety. He told the court that Carroll had exited a car at Mr Hutch's residence armed with a pistol and a revolver and discharged several shots at the victim as he entered his back garden. The judge said Carroll had aimed the guns over a gate and wall before firing indiscriminately as Mr Hutch ran through his back garden where his daughter was also sitting at the time.
An "aggressive" grizzly bear has killed two people in Canada's Banff National Park, park officials said on Sunday. They were notified of the incident on Friday evening, after receiving a GPS alert used to report bear attacks. A specialised response team then travelled on foot overnight through the mountains and located the deceased couple some five hours later. The bear, still displaying aggressive behaviour, was euthanised on-site "to ensure public safety", officials said. It was the second deadly grizzly attack in North America since July. When the alarm was triggered on Friday around 20:00 MT (03:00 BST), Parks Canada immediately mobilised a Wildlife Human Attack Response Team, according to a news release.
Egypt's health ministry says 38 people have been injured in a huge fire at a police complex in Ismailia. Twenty-four people have been treated in hospital for smoke inhalation along with two for burns. The interior minister has ordered an investigation into the fire, along with a "structural safety review" of the facility. There have been no reports of any casualties, or if any detainees were there when the fire began. Fifty ambulances were sent to the headquarters of the Directorate of Security along with two military aircraft. Twelve of the injured were not taken to hospital and were treated at the scene. There are fears that the number of people hurt could be higher, with one Egyptian journalist reporting that because of the size of the fire, there could be deaths.
At least 10 people, including three children, were killed when the roof of a church collapsed in northern Mexico at baptism. The collapse happened on Sunday afternoon local time as around 100 people were attending a baptism at Santa Cruz church in Ciudad Madero. Sixty people were injured, at least two of them seriously, and dozens were trapped underneath the rubble. Local residents rushed to the building with shovels and pickaxes to try to free those trapped. Search and rescue teams have since arrived at the scene and two cranes are on site to remove the debris.
A former Nigerian oil minister has appeared in court in London after being charged with receiving bribes in exchange for multi-million-dollar oil and gas contracts. Diezani Alison-Madueke was Nigeria's minister for petroleum resources between 2010 and 2015, during the tenure of former President Goodluck Jonathan. She was also the first female president of the oil bloc, Opec. Britain's National Crime Agency said she had received various forms of rewards - including cash, luxury goods and holidays. The NCA said it had frozen assets worth millions of dollars related to the charges. Mrs Alison-Madueke has denied the allegations and has been on bail since her arrest eight years ago. She is facing similar charges in Nigeria and the United States.


Theresa Kufuor, the former first lady of Ghana, has died at the age of 87. "Her warmth, kindness and grace were exceptional," said the country's current president in an announcement on Monday. Mrs Kufuor served as first lady from January 2001 to January 2009 and is remembered for her dedicated work in advancing maternal and child healthcare in Ghana. Her advocacy efforts were pivotal in the introduction of a policy providing free childbirth care, which significantly reduced maternal and child mortality rates in the country. In 2007, she championed policy reform for the implementation of Unesco's Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education (FCUBE) programme for nursery-age children. Born Theresa Mensah on 25 October 1935 in Kumasi, she went on to have fulfilling career as a midwife and earned the admiration of Ghanaians for maintaining a modest profile throughout her eight years in public life as first lady.
A hardline Republican says he will seek to oust House Speaker Kevin McCarthy this week, after he pushed through a last-minute spending bill with support from the opposition Democrats. Mr McCarthy submitted the bill - aimed at averting a government shutdown - in defiance of the right of his party. They had already vowed to topple him if he tried to overcome their opposition with Democratic support. Hardline Republicans in both houses of Congress voted against the motion. Republicans control the House of Representatives, with Democrats enjoying a wafer-thin majority in the Senate. On Sunday, Rep Matt Gaetz vowed to oust Mr McCarthy, telling the CNN that House Republicans needed "trustworthy" leadership. "I do intend to file a motion to vacate against Speaker McCarthy this week," said Mr Gaetz, long a vocal critic of the Californian congressman. "I think we need to move on with new leadership that can be trustworthy. "
Fierce fighting has broken out in northern Mali after the separatist fighters said they had killed more than 80 soldiers in the centre of the country. The government confirmed an army base in the Mopti region had been targeted on Thursday, but gave no details. The upsurge in violence comes as UN peacekeepers, deployed to Mali in 2013, withdraw on the orders of the junta. Thursday's raid on the town of Dioura is the most southerly one since Tuareg rebels renewed hostilities in August after the collapse of a 2015 peace deal. This has coincided with growing violence from Islamist militant groups, despite the deployment in December 2021 of Russian Wagner Group mercenaries.

The US government has avoided a federal shutdown after both House and Senate agreed on a short-term funding deal. A bill ensuring funding until 17 November received overwhelming support, and was signed into law by President Joe Biden minutes before a deadline. However, it excludes any new aid for Ukraine in a blow for Democrats, for whom this was a key demand. Republican House Speaker Kevin McCarthy submitted the bill in defiance of hard-liners in his own party. A government shutdown, which would place tens of thousands of federal employees on furlough without pay and suspend various government services, was slated to begin at 00:01 ET (04:01 GMT) on Sunday.
India has complained to the Foreign Office after a top diplomat was confronted by protesters at a gurdwara in Glasgow. The High Commission of India said Vikram Doraiswami had been invited to the place of worship to discuss community and consular issues. But he left after he was confronted by a small number of activists on Friday. A Sikh youth group later claimed there was a longstanding ban on Indian officials visiting gurdwaras. The confrontation follows an international row over suggestions Indian agents may be linked to the murder of a Sikh separatist in Canada. India has strongly rejected the claim by Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau that there is "credible evidence" of Indian involvement in the shooting of Hardeep Singh Nijjar in British Columbia in June.
A Polish World War Two veteran, described as a "legend" and a "great hero", has died aged 101. Colonel Otton Hulacki, who was part of the Polish 2nd Corps under General Wladyslaw Anders, died on Monday. His death was announced by the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in London. Col Hulacki, who took part in the battles of Monte Cassino, Ancona and Bologna, was unable to return to his homeland after the war and settled on the Isle of Wight. At the age of just 17, he joined the Polish Underground Resistance but was captured and deported to Siberia.

The incredible eco-restoration of one tiny Caribbean island - transformed from desolate rock to verdant wildlife haven in just a few years - has captured the imagination of environmentalists worldwide. Now the tenacious Antiguans and Barbudans who led the metamorphosis of the country's little known third isle of Redonda are celebrating another impressive feat. The mile-long spot has been officially designated a protected area by the country's government, ensuring its status as a pivotal nesting site for migrating birds and a home for species found nowhere else on Earth is preserved for posterity. 
Police hunting a suspect in the murder of a Baltimore, Maryland, tech CEO, have arrested a man after a days-long manhunt. Pava LaPere, 26, founder of the startup EcoMap Technologies, was reported missing on Monday morning and found dead hours later. Police detained convicted felon Jason Dean Billingsley early on Thursday. They said it appears Ms LaPere was killed on Friday night and there was no sign of forced entry into her flat. Court documents show her body was discovered on the roof of a central Baltimore apartment building "with apparent trauma to the head, face and body". Security video shows Ms LaPere appeared to let the suspect into the building, according to court documents. The suspect also appears to have waved at her through the glass door, after which she opened the door. Investigators have previously said there was no indication Ms LaPere knew Billingsley, who was wanted on a first-degree murder warrant.
House Republicans have branded the first day of their impeachment inquiry against Joe Biden a success, saying they justified their case. But expert witnesses called by Republicans cautioned there was not yet enough proof for impeachment. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy announced the inquiry over allegations Hunter Biden engaged in improper business dealings that benefited the president. The White House has called it a "political stunt". The formal impeachment inquiry grants lawmakers greater legal authority to investigate possible misconduct, after months of Republican probes failed to unearth any concrete evidence. At the first hearing in the inquiry, it was Hunter Biden - not the president - who took up most of the Republican's oxygen. Republicans allege he was selling access to his father.
The US has offered a $5m (£4. 1m) reward for details leading to the arrest of the "masterminds" who orchestrated the assassination of an Ecuadorean presidential candidate. Fernando Villavicencio, who campaigned against corruption, was shot dead at a rally in August. Organised crime was behind the killing, Ecuador's president said at the time. The US also offered a $1m (£800,000) reward for information on any leaders in the gang responsible for his death. "The United States will continue to support the people of Ecuador and work to bring to justice individuals who seek to undermine democratic processes through violent crime," Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who announced the reward, said on Thursday. The investigation was being supported by the FBI, and the reward showed Washington's commitment to fighting organised crime, Mr Blinken added.
US soldier Travis King is undergoing physical examinations at a base in Texas after being expelled by North Korea following a two-month detention. The tests aim to "assess his emotional and mental health," a Pentagon official said on Thursday, hours after he was seen landing in San Antonio. The 23-year-old reconnaissance specialist illegally crossed into North Korea from South Korea in July. Officials have not said what punishment or disciplinary action he may face. Pvt King was seen landing at the Lackland Air Force Base at 01:30 eastern time (05:30 GMT) before being taken to the Brooke Army Medical Center. Video showed him walking off the plane and speaking to people on the tarmac. "He'll be going through medical screenings, medical evaluations, and then he'll be meeting with professionals to assess his emotional and mental health," Pentagon spokeswoman Sabrina Singh told reporters, adding that he will also be re-united with family members.
Sweden's prime minister has summoned the head of the armed forces to help curb a surge in gang killings. The two men and the country's police chief will meet on Friday to discuss what role the military could play. It comes after a bloody 12 hours that saw two men shot dead in Stockholm and a 24-year-old woman killed in a blast at home in a town north of the capital. "We will hunt the gangs down and we will defeat them," PM Ulf Kristersson promised in a rare televised address. Armed forces chief Micael Byden told Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter he was prepared to assist police efforts. It is not clear exactly how the military might get involved but previous talks suggest soldiers may take over certain policing duties to allow officers to free up resources for crime-fighting.
Dutch police have arrested a gunman who killed at least three people in twin shootings in the city of Rotterdam. They say the male attacker, 32, opened fire in a home before setting it alight, then stormed the city's Erasmus Medical Center on Thursday. He was a student at Erasmus University, which is affiliated with the hospital. A woman, 39, and her 14-year old daughter were killed in the first shooting. A male lecturer, 43, was shot dead at the hospital. Footage has emerged showing a man in camouflaged clothing being taken from the hospital building in handcuffs. The motives for the attack were not immediately known. A security guard who says he was first on the scene told the BBC it was a "shocking" day.
US authorities say a man in Peru sent more than 150 hoax bomb threats to US schools, synagogues and other public buildings after teenage girls refused to send him explicit pictures. Peruvian authorities arrested Eddie Manuel Nunez Santos in Lima on Tuesday, the US Justice Department said. Mr Nunez Santos, 33, is accused of sending the threats earlier this month. The hoax bomb threats caused evacuations and other disruptions. Posing as a teenage boy named "Lucas", investigators say Mr Nunez Santos, a website developer, communicated with teenage girls on an online gaming platform. Prosecutors say he asked at least two of them, including a 15-year-old, for explicit pictures and threatened to bomb their schools when they refused.
More than 30 firefighters helped rescue a woman from a flooded river in County Londonderry after Storm Agnes brought heavy rain and strong winds to the island of Ireland. The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS) found a car in the River Moyola in Draperstown with the driver trapped inside. She was taken to Antrim Area Hospital and treated for hypothermia and shock. Storm Agnes is the first named storm of the season. It arrived in Northern Ireland around lunchtime and has caused disruption to some flights, some ferries and to power lines. More than 300 customers across Northern Ireland, including Poyntzpass in County Armagh, are still without power due to the severe weather. The Met Office and Met Éireann had both issued weather warnings and had advised of the possibility of disruption to travel. The NIFRS attended the scene of the trapped vehicle at about 14:30 BST on Wednesday.
The mother of a black girl who was not given a medal at an Irish gymnastics event ceremony says the apology she has received is "useless". A video emerged recently showing the alleged racist treatment of a young black gymnast being ignored by an official who was handing out medals at an event in Dublin last year. The mother said watching the incident unfold at the time was "horrendous". Gymnastics Ireland apologised on Monday "for the upset that has been caused". In the statement, the governing body said it was "deeply sorry", that it knew it needed to do more to ensure "nothing like this will happen again" and it condemned "any form of racism". But the mother of the girl said the sports body only publicly apologised after 18 months "because the world wanted them to".
Ireland is "no soft touch" for international drug traffickers, the country's justice minister has said. Helen McEntee was speaking to reporters following the largest drugs seizure in the history of the state. Officials recovered more than two tonnes of cocaine after storming a Panamanian-registered ship, MV Matthew, on Tuesday. On Thursday, gardaí (Irish police) investigating the operation arrested a man for alleged organised crime offences. This brings the total number of persons in custody to seven.
Taiwan has unveiled its first domestically-made submarine as it bolsters its defences against a possible Chinese attack. President Tsai Ing-wen presided over the launch ceremony in the port city of Kaohsiung on Thursday. US officials have warned that China could be militarily capable of mounting an invasion within the next few years. Taiwan is a self-governing island which China regards as a renegade province and has vowed to reclaim one day. Most observers believe China will not attack the island imminently, and Beijing has said it seeks peaceful "reunification" with Taiwan. But at the same time it has warned against Taiwan formally declaring independence and any foreign support. It has increasingly sought to put pressure on the island with its military drills in the Taiwan Strait, including several conducted this month. 
Nearly 1,000 people have died of dengue in Bangladesh this year, in what authorities say is the country's most severe outbreak of the disease yet. Extraordinarily wet monsoons have made it easier for mosquitoes that carry the dengue virus to breed in dirty and stagnant water. Officials have struggled to contain the spread of the disease and hospitals have been critically overwhelmed. In severe cases, dengue causes internal bleeding which can lead to death. Its symptoms include headaches, nausea, joint and muscle pain. Dengue is endemic in tropical countries and outbreaks often occur in urban areas with poor sanitation that allow virus-carrying mosquitoes to multiply.
South African anti-apartheid struggle veteran Aziz Pahad has died aged 82, his family announced. He passed away at his home in Johannesburg on Wednesday evening, a statement said. The family described him as a patriot and freedom fighter who dedicated his life to the governing ANC party and serving South Africans. Mr Pahad joined the struggle against apartheid rule from a very young age. In 1964 he went into exile in the UK where he went on to co-ordinate the international call to free imprisoned ANC leader Nelson Mandela. Mr Pahad returned to South Africa in 1990 after the white-minority government, led by FW de Klerk, freed Mr Mandela. After the democratic election in 1994, Mr Pahad served as deputy foreign affairs minister for 14 years, first under Mr Mandela and then under President Thabo Mbeki. In 2014, former President Jacob Zuma appointed him as his envoy on the crisis in the Middle East. Mr Pahad documented his political life in his memoir Insurgent Diplomat.
A 27-year-old man believed to be a British national has been arrested in Portugal after allegedly stabbing another British man to death and "desecrating" the corpse. Police said the suspect was detained in the central town of Soalheira, where he had been the organiser of a party. The 37-year-old victim had been taken to a secluded area and attacked with "unusual violence", they said. The two men are not thought to have known each other personally. Early local media reports said the stabbing followed an argument during some kind of game, but police said there seemed to be "no connection with online games or challenges". They added that the actual motive was not yet clear. In a statement on Wednesday, the Judiciary Police, the national agency dealing with Portugal's most serious crimes, said the suspect was a "foreigner who was organising a party on a rural property". 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has apologised on behalf of Canada's parliament after a Ukrainian man who fought for a Nazi unit was unwittingly applauded in parliament. "This is a mistake that deeply embarrassed parliament and Canada," Mr Trudeau said on Wednesday. Speaker Anthony Rota, who has assumed responsibility for inviting Yaroslav Hunka, 98, resigned on Tuesday. The incident has drawn global condemnation. Mr Trudeau also apologised directly to Ukraine's leader Volodymyr Zelensky, who was visiting Canada and present in parliament, saying: "Canada is deeply sorry. " The Ukrainian leader was among those pictured applauding Mr Hunka, an image that has been exploited in Russian propaganda.
Around 100 killed  and 100 others are injured after a fire broke out during a wedding in Iraq's biggest Christian town on Tuesday night. Hundreds were celebrating at a banqueting hall in Qaraqosh, in Nineveh province, when the tragedy happened. Witnesses and civil defence officials said the fire was sparked by fireworks set off as the bride and groom danced. Highly flammable metal and plastic composite panels that covered the hall fuelled the blaze, they added.Security forces arrested 10 of the venue's staff, its owner and three people involved with the fireworks on Wednesday.In the afternoon, hundreds of mourners attended a funeral for more than 40 of the victims at a cemetery in Qaraqosh, which is also known as al-Hamdaniya and Bakhdida. Some carried portraits of their deceased loved ones.
Sierra Leone’s Vice-President Juldeh Jalloh has told the BBC his country intends to tackle mental health, a big issue in a country that has experienced several traumatic events in its recent history. He is leading a mental health taskforce that wants to help people scarred by civil war, high unemployment and poverty. “If you have mental health as a big challenge, it’s going to affect the young population. It’s also going to affect family members,” he said. During the conflict of the 1990s, child soldiers roamed the streets mutilating and killing their victims. This was followed by years of economic turmoil. In 2014, an outbreak of the Ebola virus left almost 4,000 people dead. Sierra Leone’s government is currently updating the 1903 Lunacy Act, so that it includes modern, up-to-date mental health legislation. 
The Black Book has become Netflix's "biggest ever" Nigerian film, its director has said. The action movie, which arrived on Netflix last Friday, follows a deacon who takes justice into his own hands after his late son is framed for kidnapping. Director Editi Effiòng said on X, the social media platform formally known as Twitter: "Just got off a call with Netflix. #TheBlackBook is a global hit! The biggest film out of Nigeria on Netflix ever. " Data from the popular streaming platform shows that in the two days following its release, The Black Book was watched 5,600,000 times. It also became that week's fourth most-watched film. Netflix has boosted its collection of African-made films and TV shows over the past five years, adding popular products such as South Africa's Blood and Water and pan-African reality TV show Young Famous and African.
Azerbaijan has arrested a former leader of Nagorno-Karabakh as he tried to leave the enclave for Armenia, officials say. Ruben Vardanyan, a businessman who headed the separatist government from November 2022 until February, was among thousands trying to leave. Around 50,000 ethnic Armenians have now fled Nagorno-Karabakh, which was seized by Azerbaijan last week. Mr Vardanyan's wife appealed for support to ensure his safe release. "Ruben has stood with the Arsakh people during the 10-month blockade and has suffered with them in their struggle for survival," said Veronika Zonabend. Azerbaijan's border service said he had been taken to the capital, Baku, and handed over to other state agencies. As they crossed the border on Tuesday, thousands of ethnic Armenians were subject to rigorous checks from Azerbaijani border control.
An 18-year-old international student was killed on his first day at the University of Liverpool when he was struck by a van. Juan Lima, who was originally from Cuba, was struck on Hatton Garden in Liverpool, near the Dale Street junction, at about 15:45 BST on 18 September, Merseyside Police said. The teenager, who was going to study urban planning, died at the scene. His relatives said: "He will be sadly missed by all his family. " In a tribute, they said: "He was only 18 years old and it was his first day at the University of Liverpool, where he was about to study urban planning. "Juan was born in Cuba, but also had Mexican and American nationality. He felt like a citizen of the world. "Furthermore, he loved the UK. "
Uganda's wildlife authority has suspended 11 of its employees over the suspected sale of fake gorilla permits. The government agency, which sells passes allowing tourists to see gorillas up close, said it had found anomalies in its online transactions. Safari companies say a permit currently costs about $700 (£575) per person per trek - and a limited number are offered each year. According to Uganda's private Daily Monitor newspaper, auditors noticed that the number of visitors at Mgahinga and Bwindi national parks did not tally with revenue collected. Bashir Hang, spokesperson from the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), said the possibility that staff and tour operators had worked together to commit fraud was being investigated.
Ugandan police say they have arrested a 17-year-old student on charges of trafficking 170 young people. The police said that they arrested the high school student on 18 September in central Uganda. Police say that the student kept 170 young people at the home of a 28-year-old woman while they awaited transportation to Kenya's capital, Nairobi, where the student had promised them jobs. However, the Uganda Police Force said on Tuesday that the trafficking scheme was a scam. “Upon interrogation he [the student] admitted that he wanted to extort money from the victims using the name of Humble Company in Kenya as a cover up. There was no connection with the company and the job advert for waiters, waitresses, coffee parkers and supermarket attendants in Kenya was fake,” the Uganda Police Force said in a statement.
Eight people have been electrocuted after gale force winds and heavy rainfall lashed South Africa’s Western Cape province. Hundreds of people have been evacuated from their homes, including residents of a retirement village. Landslides and rockfalls forced the closure of a number of major roads leading into Cape Town. Heavy downpours, which continued until late last night, caused several rivers to overflow, resulting in the destruction of infrastructure and widespread electricity outages. Weather conditions have slightly improved and mop up operations are under way.
Zoleka Mandela, granddaughter of South Africa's first democratically elected President Nelson Mandela, has died of cancer at the age of 43. She passed away on Monday evening surrounded by friends and family, a spokesperson said. In recent years, Ms Mandela had become well known for detailing her cancer treatment. She was also open about her history of drug addiction. The Nelson Mandela Foundation said her work was inspirational. It said that she raised "awareness about cancer prevention" as well as "breaking down the stigma surrounding the disease". Ms Mandela also spoke candidly about her struggles with depression and the fact that she had been sexually abused as a child. In addition, she campaigned for better road safety after her 13-year-old daughter was killed in a car accident in 2010. She later lost a son who was born prematurely. She is survived by four children.
Kenya will begin constructing a nuclear power plant in 2027, the authorities have said in the latest pledge about the plans. The 1,000MW plant, which has been in the pipeline for several years, is part of the country’s ambition to move to clean energy and increase energy generation. Similar statements about the imminence of the start of the project have been made in the past. The acting CEO of the Nuclear Power and Energy Agency Justus Wabuyabo told Kenya’s Business Daily newspaper that the agency is currently conducting site assessments and finalising preparations to open bids for the plant’s construction. Mr Wabuyabo said that the plant will be constructed in Kenya’s coastal region over six to 10 years, with the first plant beginning operations in 2034 at the earliest. Some Kenyans have criticised the plan, claiming that a nuclear plant is unnecessary and the country lacks capacity to handle nuclear waste.
A retired teacher who was cycling the world to raise money for charity was killed in the Moroccan earthquake, leaving family "devastated". Liverpool-born David Barden, 71, died when his hotel in the Atlas Mountains collapsed on 8 September. Mr Barden was in the region cycling to raise money for the Red Cross. The 6. 8-magnitude earthquake was the strongest to hit the country in more than 60 years and killed more than 2,900 people. Daughter Sarah Barden, 41, said she received a text message from her father, who she described as her "best friend", just 40 minutes before the quake hit. Ms Barden, who is a consultant for the United Nations Food Agency based in Rome, said he had told her he was at the top of a mountain range in a place called Tizi N'test.
Amazon will invest up to $4bn (£3. 3bn) in San Francisco-based AI firm Anthropic, mirroring the earlier tie-up between Microsoft and OpenAI. It is the latest multi-billion dollar investment in a race among the big tech firms to exploit the potential of artificial intelligence. Amazon recently said it would use AI to boost its Alexa voice assistant's conversational powers. Anthropic has its own ChatGPT rival called Claude. Amazon claimed the investment could help improve customer experiences. "If you look at the world of generative AI, this is the beginning of the race," Jim Hare of research firm Gartner told BBC News. While Microsoft had initially reaped the biggest benefit from the enthusiasm for AI through its partnership with OpenAI, he said others were catching up.
A university in Ireland is to offer the country’s first degree in social-media influencing. The Bachelor of Arts in Content Creation and Social Media, at Southeast Technical University in Carlow, will open for applications in November. It is due to welcome its first cohort of students in September 2024. Topics covered on the four-year course are to include business skills, video and audio editing, critical cultural studies and creative writing. Speaking to Irish broadcaster RTÉ, Dr Eleanor O'Leary, lecturer in media and communications at the university, said there is a growing interest in the area both from potential students and employers. Dr O’Leary said graduates of the course will be equipped to either work for themselves as a self-employed influencer or in creating content for a company or organisation. 
The US has restarted its free at-home Covid-19 testing service, as the government attempts to limit the spread of the virus over the winter months. Covid hospitalisations have been increasing in the last few weeks, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The tests will be able to detect a new strain of the virus, which has now been reported in several US states. People will be able to request four free rapid antigen tests. The government website to request Covid tests was launched in January 2022, but the programme ended earlier in 2023 to conserve supplies. The Biden administration said the programme previously distributed 755 million free Covid-19 tests through the United States Postal Service.
The daughter of a Florida woman who was killed by an alligator has said her family is experiencing "grief and sorrow and unbearable pain". In a Facebook post, Breauna Dorris said her mother, Sabrina Peckham, was homeless and living in a wooded area close to where she was attacked. She said Ms Peckham, 41, may have been walking to her campsite when the "alligator attacked from the water". She also pushed back on some claims made on social media about her mother. "Some details I would like to share is that my mother did not 'taunt' the alligator as some are saying in the news outlets comments," Ms Dorris wrote. "No matter how you put it, no one deserves to die like this. "To my mother: I love you more than I ever expressed, I miss you more than you'll ever know and I pray that you are looking down over me and your grandchildren," Ms Dorris said.
The Republic of Ireland's population grew by almost 98,000 people in the past year, the biggest increase since 2008. Official figures suggested the population in April 2023 was 5,281,600, up from 5,184,000 in 2022. Most of the growth - 77,600 people - came from net migration with the rest due to 20,000 more births than deaths. Immigration was at its highest level since 2007, which mainly reflects the impact of Russia invading Ukraine. Cathal Doherty, a statistician in population estimates at the Central Statistics Office, said the number of people immigrating to Ireland in the year to April 2023 was was estimated to be 141,600, while the number of emigrants over the same period was estimated at 64,000. As a result net migration was 77,600 - up from 51,700 the previous year. Of those 141,600 immigrants, almost 42,000 were from Ukraine.
A survivor of a lethal mushroom poisoning that has gripped Australia has been released from hospital, his family say. Ian Wilkinson had been left in a critical condition after eating a beef Wellington cooked by Erin Patterson. Three people, including Mr Wilkinson's wife, died after the meal, which police believe contained death cap mushrooms, which are lethal if ingested. Ms Patterson, who is not facing charges, has said it was an accident. Mr Wilkinson left hospital on Friday after almost two months of treatment, according to his family. "This milestone marks a moment of immense relief and gratitude for Ian and the entire Wilkinson family," they said in a statement. 
Egypt is to hold a presidential election this December - earlier than had been expected. President Abdul Fattah al-Sisi, a former army chief who has been in power for nearly a decade, has yet to formally announce his candidacy. However, state-aligned media has already published messages of support from pro-government bodies. The election was initially expected to be held in the spring of 2024. Some experts suspect it was moved so voters would go to the polls before a possible switch to a flexible exchange rate - a change that could exacerbate social tensions. The vote will be held between 10-12 December, said National Election Authority chairman Judge Walid Hassan Hamza. Excluding Mr Sisi, only two candidates have so far declared their intention to run in the coming election. One of them - opposition politician Ahmed al-Tantawi - has for months accused security forces of harrasment.
The Somali government says its forces killed scores of al-Shabab militants just a day after a truck bomb killed at least 10 people in the central town of Beledweyne. Deputy Information Minister Abdirahman Al-Adalah says the Somali army and local militia attacked the militant camp in Caad village in Galmudug state. The number of al-Shabab fighters could not immediately be verified and the group has not issued any statement about the government’s claims. The government also says its forces have retaken villages from the jihadists in the western Hiiraan region. It comes as President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud met US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin in Djibouti to discuss the fight against the al-Qaeda-linked group, which has waged an insurgency in Somalia for more than 15 years. 
The authorities in Chile have raised the alert level for the Villarrica volcano to orange, the second-highest, after they registered a gradual increase in its activity. Villarrica is one of the most active volcanoes in South America. The 2,847m-high (9,340ft) volcano last erupted in 2015. Some 30 families who live in a radius of 8km (5 miles) from the crater will be evacuated and access to the area will be blocked, officials said. Schools in the nearby towns of Pucón and Villarrica will close for five days from Monday and pupils will be taught online. The stratovolcano, which is located 750km south of the capital, has been active for about 650,000 years. There have been close to 50 eruptions since the 16th Century. The cone-shaped snow-capped volcano is popular with climbers and skiers. A national park on its slopes has been closed while the orange alert is in place.
New Brexit trade rules covering electric vehicles could cost European manufacturers £3. 75 billion over the next three years, an industry body has said. The rules are meant to ensure that EU-produced electric cars are largely made from locally sourced parts. But manufacturers on both sides of the Channel say they are not ready. The European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) also warned the measures could reduce output from EU factories by 480,000 vehicles. And they said customers would pay the price. The main problem lies in so-called "rules of origin" which come into force in January. They apply to shipments of cars across the Channel under the terms of the Brexit deal, the UK-EU Trade and Cooperation Agreement. They will effectively ensure that electric vehicles will need to have batteries produced in either the UK or the EU.
Kosovo and Serbia have traded accusations over a deadly stand-off between ethnic Serb gunmen and police in northern Kosovo. One policeman and three of the gunmen were killed during a siege of a Serbian Orthodox monastery in Banjska village on Sunday. Kosovo's PM Albin Kurti accused Serbia of supporting the armed group. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said Kosovo officials bore ultimate responsibility for the deaths. He said the three gunmen killed were Kosovo Serbs. Sunday's clash marks one of the gravest escalations in Kosovo for years, and follows months of mounting tension between the two sides. Kosovo declared independence in 2008 but Serbia - along with Belgrade's key allies China and Russia - does not recognise it.
Specialist British military bomb disposal teams are training Ukrainian engineers to clear most heavily mined field . Ukraine is now the most heavily mined country in the world, and it's slowing down Ukrainian military advances. The training by British Army sappers - combat engineers, some of whom faced similar obstacles in Afghanistan - was specifically requested by Ukraine. The BBC is the first news organisation to visit the military base in Poland where the training has been taking place.
Jailed Russian opposition activist Vladimir Kara-Murza has been moved to a maximum-security prison in Siberia, several weeks after he was taken from a Moscow detention centre. He was placed in an isolation cell at the Omsk penal colony, his lawyer says. Mr Kara-Murza, who has survived two poisonings since 2015, was jailed for 25 years in April accused of treason and lying about the war Ukraine. His lawyer said conditions in Omsk threatened his client's health. The whereabouts of the 42-year-old had been unknown for several weeks. The charges against him stemmed from a speech he gave to the Arizona House of Representatives, in which he denounced Russia's invasion of Ukraine. His sentence is the longest against a Russian opposition figure in recent years.
A man has died and his friend has been injured during a bull-running festival in eastern in Spain, authorities say. The man, 61, was gored in his side during the event in the town of Pobla de Farnals in the Valencia region on Saturday. He underwent emergency surgery but died on Sunday. His friend, 63, was attacked in both legs by the same bull and is in a stable condition in hospital. Deaths and injuries during bull-running festivals in Spain are not uncommon. There are hundreds of such events - in which bulls are released on city streets with people running ahead of them - across Spain every year. Animal rights groups have long complained of the dangers for the public as well as the animals. But the annual events remain popular.
A solar-powered electric car built by students is to take part in an international 3,000km (1,864-mile) race in the Australian outback. The Durham University team will compete in a three-wheeled car designed by more than 50 students over 100,000 hours at a department of engineering society. It can generate enough energy to drive at more than 75 km/h (47mph). Faculty advisor Prof David Sims-Williams said the project was a "great opportunity" to make ideas a reality. "Success requires designs which are bold and innovative but which also work in the real world," he said. The Bridgestone World Solar Challenge starts in Darwin on 22 October and finishes in Adelaide five days later, with the cars expected to cover the course in 50 hours.
French rapper MHD has been given a 12-year jail term for the murder of a young man in Paris in 2018. A court in the capital found the 29-year-old MHD, real name Mohamed Sylla, guilty of involvement in the gang-related killing of Loic K, 23. The victim was knocked down by MHD's Mercedes, then beaten and stabbed to death by a crowd of about 12 people. MHD, who is known for blending trap and West African music to get "Afro trap", pleaded not guilty to the charges. "From the beginning, I have maintained my innocence in this case and I will continue to maintain my innocence," he told the packed court in Paris, AFP news agency reports. He denied being at the scene of the murder, arguing that the case against him was based on rumours. However, a local resident filmed the incident in the summer of 2018 from his window, and the car was quickly identified as belonging to MHD.
Zambia's former President, Edgar Lungu, has been warned and banned against his public jogging events, with police describing his workouts as "political activism". The police in a statement said Mr Lungu's exercise sessions while escorted by members of his Patriotic Front (PF) party and without his security officers amounted to "unlawful assembly". The former head of state was ordered to notify police in advance when planning to jog in future "to ensure public safety and traffic management”. "Mr Lungu should strictly adhere to security protocols and should refrain from any form of political activism," police spokesperson Rae Hamoonga said. 
Ethiopian Tigst Assefa has broken the women's world marathon record in Berlin by more than two minutes. In a dominant performance, the 26-year-old runner crossed the finish line in two hours 11 minutes 53 seconds. She smashed Kenyan Brigid Kosgei's time of 2:14:04 set in 2019. In the men's race, Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge, the greatest men's marathon runner of all time, came first in 2:02:42 - more than a minute outside his own world record set in the German capital last year.
Police in Florida got a shock when the driver they stopped on a major highway turned out to be a 10-year-old boy. The boy and his 11-year-old sister were stopped in Alachua, hundreds of miles from where they were reported missing by their mother earlier in the week. Police said the pair had made their runaway bid after she had confiscated their electronic gadgets. "Much to their surprise deputies observed a 10-year-old male driver exit, with his sister," they said. The Alachua County Sheriff's office described the traffic stop as "high risk" and late at night - 03:50 local time (07:50 GMT) on Thursday. The white sedan the pair had been travelling in had been reported missing by their mother in North Port, Florida, a city more than 200 miles (320km) from Alachua.
A group of UK firefighters who helped with the rescue effort after an earthquake struck Morocco have said it was one of the "biggest" challenges they had ever faced. The 6. 8-magnitude earthquake struck on 8 September, killing more than 2,900 people and injuring more than 5,000. Four Lincolnshire firefighters and a rescue dog were part of the UK International Search and Rescue Team. Team member Neil Woodmansey said it was "a reality check" for those involved. Mr Woodmansey, his six-year-old dog Colin and colleagues Karl Keuneke, Darren Burchnall and Ben Clarke were among 60 firefighters from 14 UK fire services to join the team. The firefighter, who lives in Sleaford, has been involved in rescue efforts abroad for more than 20 years, but said it was still a big moment when the call came.
A veteran US senator has temporarily stepped down as head of the chamber's powerful foreign relations committee as he battles bribery charges. Justice department prosecutors allege Robert Menendez and his wife accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in exchange for aid to Egypt's government. The couple have denied the charges. The embattled senator has rejected calls from fellow Democrats back in his home state of New Jersey to resign his seat. Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer said on Friday that Mr Menendez had decided to step down as chairman of the influential committee "until the matter has been resolved". The New York Democrat said his colleague was "a dedicated public servant and is always fighting hard for the people of New Jersey".
US President Joe Biden plans to give Ukraine advanced long-range missiles to help Kyiv with its ongoing counter-offensive, US media report. They quote US officials familiar with the issue as saying Ukraine will get some ATACMS missiles with a range of up to 190 miles (300km). This would enable Kyiv to hit Russian targets deep behind the front line. At least two Ukrainian missiles hit the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea fleet in annexed Crimea on Friday. A Ukrainian military source told the BBC that the attack in the port of Sevastopol used Storm Shadow missiles, which are supplied by Britain and France. Such missiles have a range of just over 150 miles.
Three women in Canada have been criminally charged after allegedly pretending to be Inuit to receive benefits from indigenous organisations. According to police, two 25-year-old sisters committed fraud by posing as adopted Inuit children. Both sisters and their 59-year-old mother are facing two counts of fraud each. One Inuit group called the alleged deception "flabbergasting". The defendants are due in court in the city of Iqaluit on 30 October. In a statement, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said that Amira and Nadya Gill and their mother, Karima Manji, defrauded two local organisations of "funds that are only available to Inuit beneficiaries by obtaining grants and scholarships" between October 2016 and September 2022.
A Ukrainian missile strike has hit the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea fleet in Crimea. A serviceman is missing after the missile attack, according to Moscow. Footage on social media shows plumes of smoke over the building in Sevastopol. The fleet is an important target for Kyiv and is seen as the best of Russia's navy. Ukraine has hit several targets in Crimea recently, including an air-defence system and two naval vessels. Against the backdrop of the attack, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visited the Canadian parliament to give a speech in which he thanked Canada for being an "example for others around the world" in its support of his country.
Two men face multiple charges of attempted murder in South Africa after around 90 children fell ill from eating drug-laced muffins. Officials said the children bought the muffins from a street vendor on their way to Pulamadibogo Primary School, north-west of Pretoria. Many were taken to hospital for nausea, stomach pain and vomiting. Three girls remain in hospital. Two suspects, aged 21 and 19, were on Friday charged with attempted murder. The Gauteng provincial education department said teachers had called an ambulance after noticing their children had begun "behaving strangely" in class. It said the incident had caused considerable distress to parents who were worried about their children's safety.
King Charles received an enthusiastic welcome as crowds turned out in Bordeaux for the final day of the state visit to France. After two days in Paris, his trip to the south-west city gave the King more of a chance to engage with the public. A festival event which included the King meeting the Fiji rugby team turned into a scrum of well-wishers. The King was surrounded by two of the main features of a royal visit - people holding up mobile phones and security. The state visit had seen two days of formal events in Paris - including a speech to the French Senate, about Ukraine and climate change, which received a standing ovation.
Three Indian martial arts athletes have been seemingly caught up in a row about visas between India-China over a long-standing border dispute. The women are from the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh - which China claims as its own territory. They are in a group due to compete in the Asian Games, which open in the Chinese city of Hangzhou on Saturday. But India said they were prevented from travelling and accused Beijing of denying them the proper accreditation. China has denied this, saying all athletes with legal documents are welcome. According to Indian media, the three wushu athletes - Nyeman Wangsu, Onilu Tega and Mepung Lamgu - were left behind after their documents could not be downloaded. None of the team's other members reportedly experienced any problems. In a statement, India's foreign ministry said China had "discriminated" against the athletes in a "targeted and pre-meditated manner".
Two people have been killed and five others injured after shells were fired on the historic northern Malian city of Timbuktu, the army says. The military blamed what it called "terrorists" for the shelling. Timbuktu, a UN-designated World Heritage Site, has been under siege in recent weeks by jihadists, leading to acute food shortages. Back in 2012, it was captured by Islamist and Tuareg fighters, who were eventually ousted by French forces. However, the jihadists continued to stage attacks from their bases further north in the Sahara Desert. The insurgency was the main reason Mali's military seized power in 2020, accusing the civilian government of failing to provide security.
A two-year-old boy who is being treated in hospital in Portugal is unable to return to Wales for medical help. Theo Jones from Maesteg, Bridgend county, has a virus attacking his brain but cannot be flown to hospital in Cardiff because of insurance company delays, his parents have said. They are now concerned his condition will deteriorate and he will never be able to travel home. AXA Partners insurance company said it was preparing for Theo's repatriation. Theo became unwell on 13 September, during a family holiday to Portugal, and was taken to Faro Hospital by ambulance two days later.
Kenya’s security minister, Kithure Kindiki, has issued a shoot to kill order against criminals who target law enforcement officers in the troubled northwest of the country. Mr Kindiki reiterated the government's commitment to bring order to parts of the Rift Valley region that border South Sudan. The directive was given a day after armed bandits killed three people in an attack. For years, bandit attacks and cattle rustling have been a cause of instability in northwest Kenya. Earlier this year, the army was sent to the area to deal with cross border criminal networks after several people were killed and livestock stolen.
Two people have died and five others have been critically injured in a school bus crash in New York. It appears to have been caused by a faulty front tyre, officials say, adding that an inquiry is underway. The charter bus was taking pupils from Long Island to a band camp when it came off the road and tumbled into a ditch near the town of Wawayanda. Officials say 44 people were on the bus. They have been taken to six regional hospitals for treatment. The two people who died have been named as Gina Pellettiere, 43, and Beatrice Ferarri, 77. According to the school's website, Ms Pellettiere worked in the school's music programme. Nassau-Suffolk Performing Arts, a community music club in Long Island, says on its website that she is the "director of bands" at the Farmingdale High School.
An unspecified number of female students have been abducted by gunmen from a Nigerian university in north-west Zamfara state. The students of the Federal University Gusau were abducted from three hostels in Sabon Gida community, in the early hours of Friday. Local journalists told the BBC that the gunmen began shooting indiscriminately before attacking the students' hostels. The police and the university authorities have not commented yet. In 2021, bandits abducted over 300 school girls in Zamfara state, but they were released after the government negotiated with the kidnappers. North-west Nigeria has seen a rise in kidnapping, with armed gangs abducting individuals from villages, highways, and farmlands for ransom.
The Iranian foreign ministry has announced that Iran and Djibouti have decided to restore ties after seven years, following a meeting between their foreign ministers in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly session. Djibouti, along with some other Muslim countries, joined Saudi Arabia in cutting diplomatic relations with Iran in response to the storming of the Saudi embassy in Tehran by Iranians protesters in 2016 - following the execution of top Saudi Shia cleric Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr. "The two governments have agreed to further develop friendly relations between the two countries on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, equality, mutual benefit, and peaceful co-existence," read part of a statement published by Iran on Thursday. 
The exiled former president of the Central African Republic (CAR), Francois Bozizé, has been sentenced to life in prison by a court in the country's capital, Bangui. The 76-year-old, who now leads a rebel coalition, was convicted in his absence of charges including rebellion and undermining security. Handed down on Thursday, the judgement gave no details on the time period or crimes concerned. More than 20 others, including two of Mr Bozizé's sons, were also convicted in their absence. Mr Bozizé seized power in the CAR in 2003. He was overthrown a decade later, sparking a last civil war that has killed thousands of people. He now lives in Guinea-Bissau.
A teenage Scottish footballer has been critically injured after being hit by a car while studying in the USA. Ethan Walker, 17, was hurt while walking back to his dorm at Genesee Community College in Rochester, New York on 12 September. The former Huntly FC player, from Ellon in Aberdeenshire, suffered multiple broken bones and bleeding in the brain. He is being treated in hospital where his family are trying to raise $50,000 towards the cost of his treatment. College friend Benjamin Bacon, who set up the fundraising appeal, said he was with two teammates when the incident happened.
The bodies of two migrants were recovered from the Rio Grande separating the US and Mexico this week, including a three-year-old child. Migrant arrivals at the US southern border have spiked to near-record numbers in September, putting a strain on local resources. The child is believed to have drowned after being swept away while crossing the river. Hundreds of migrants die each year while attempting the crossing. According to a Texas Department of Public Safety spokesperson quoted by CBS, the BBC's US partner, the body of the three-year-old was recovered near the town of Eagle Pass on Wednesday. He was traveling with his family and was pronounced dead at a local hospital. The following morning, Texas state troopers located another body submerged in the river in the same area.
A lock of hair from a young Ethiopian prince, who died over 140 years ago, has been handed over in the UK to representatives from his home country. In 1868, British soldiers took Prince Alemayehu away after invading the fortress of his father, Emperor Tewodros II, who then killed himself. The crown prince died aged 18 in 1879 after an unhappy upbringing in Britain. He was buried at Windsor Castle near London, but recent requests to have his body returned have been turned down. One of the prince's relatives, Fasil Minas, expressed hope that the handing over of the prince's hair could pave the way for his body to go back to Ethiopia.
A military judge at Guantanamo Bay has ruled one of the five defendants charged over the 9/11 attacks is not fit to stand trial in a death-penalty case. The defendant Ramzi bin al-Shibh has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, associated psychotic features and a delusional disorder. His lawyer has long claimed his client was "tortured by the CIA". Al-Shibh was scheduled to face pretrial proceedings on Friday. Colonel Matthew McCall in the US base on the eastern tip of Cuba accepted the findings of the doctors which said in August that al-Shibh was too psychologically damaged to defend himself. The medical board of doctors concluded al-Shibh had become delusional and psychotic, The New York Times reported.
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has arrived in Canada for the first time since the Russian invasion. Canadian TV showed Prime Minister Justin Trudeau meeting Mr Zelensky and the first lady on the runway in Ottawa. It comes after increasing doubts from international partners over how it should continue providing aid to Kyiv. Mr Zelensky arrived from Washington where he had hoped to secure further funding but it is unclear if US Congress will back more aid. Earlier in the week, he urged world leaders to continue to support Ukraine to help fight off Russian forces at the United Nations in New York. Diplomatic tensions are on the rise, after Mr Zelensky criticised Poland, Slovakia and Hungary, for banning imports of Ukrainian grain.
Somalia is seeking a delay in the withdrawal of African Union peacekeeping forces in the country. The country has asked the UN to delay by three months the next phase of departure of the African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS) troops. "Somalia formally requests a technical pause in the drawdown of the 3,000 ATMIS uniformed personnel by three months," the AFP news agency quotes a letter written to the UN by Somalia’s national security adviser Hussein Sheikh-Ali as saying. A total of 3,000 troops of the 17,000-strong force were due to leave by the end of the month in the second phase of the withdrawal. But the Somali government, which is currently waging a war against al-Shabab militants says it is facing “significant setbacks”. 
African governments have called on the UN Human Rights Council to terminate the mandate of a team of human rights experts on Ethiopia after the submission of its latest report earlier this week. The expert panel said war crimes and crimes against humanity were still being committed despite the signing of cessation of hostilities agreement officially ending the war in Tigray. It further stated that violent confrontations are at a near-national scale. But an Ethiopian delegate accused the commission of failing to recognise the efforts of the government and engaging in "defamatory rhetoric with questionable methodology".
A veteran Nigerian radio journalist, Hamisu Danjibga, has been found dead in north-west Zamfara state three days after he was declared missing. Danjibga worked with the Voice of Nigeria (VON) for many years, where he reported extensively on the widespread insecurity in Zamfara state. He was declared missing early Monday before his body was found in a pit behind his house. The VON in a statement said the journalist had been kidnapped by "terrorists", describing his death as murder. The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and other press organisations have condemned the alleged killing of Danjibga. Zamfara state Governor Dauda Lawal has ordered security agencies to investigate the incident.
Three Ukrainian choirs are coming together for the first time to perform in a concert in aid of their home country. The groups from Portsmouth, Petersfield and Havant will appear at the city's New Theatre Royal on Friday evening. Olena Ivanchuk helped set up the choirs after leaving Ukraine in 2022 when it was invaded by Russia. Money raised will go to Ukrainian charity Reduit, which provides medical supplies for the country's soldiers. Ms Ivanchuk said: "We have really high hopes for this concert because we are eager to support those in Ukraine. " The choirs have been meeting three times a week to share their love of singing and create a sense of support in the community.
Police have found a large quantity of fentanyl, other drugs and paraphernalia hidden under a trapdoor at a New York City nursery . Photos from New York police show bags filled with brown and white powders. Police said the volume of drugs could have killed 500,000 people. The nursery's owner and her tenant are facing federal charges. Authorities are still searching for her husband who was caught on camera fleeing the scene. A one-year-old died of a suspected drug overdose at the daycare last Friday. Nicholas Dominici had been at the Divino Niño nursery for just a week. 
The US Senate has filled three top military vacancies after an eight-month delay brought on by one Republican's objections to Pentagon abortion policy. Senior promotions are typically confirmed by the Senate in large groups, but over 300 nominees have been held up by Senator Tommy Tuberville. The one-man blockade prompted the Senate to process a trio of key positions on a one-on-one basis. Mr Tuberville declared victory, noting such an option had long been available. The Democratic leader of the Senate, Chuck Schumer, moved on Wednesday to confirm General Charles Brown as the new chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the nation's top uniformed officer. Gen Brown replaces outgoing General Mark Milley, who is slated to retire at the end of the month.
Taoiseach (Irish prime minister) Leo Varadkar has said the threat level against politicians has risen in recent times. It comes after politicians and staff were unable to leave the grounds of the Oireachtas (Irish parliament) for several hours on Wednesday due to a protest. Thirteen people have been charged after incidents at the Leinster House. Mr Varadkar said people were entitled to hold peaceful protests, but what happened on Wednesday was "wrong". The protests took place outside the building as politicians returned to the Dáil (lower house of parliament) chamber after a summer recess. TDs (Members of Parliament and senators were escorted out of Leinster House by gardaí (Irish police) due to the demonstrations. Two men in their 40s have already appeared in court, gardaí said.
The population of southern white rhinos has increased for the first time since 2012, a leading conservation group has said as it revealed the results of its annual survey. The International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) announced on Thursday that “white rhinos now number around 16,803 animals, an increase of 5. 6%” from the previous year. “Notably, this is the first increase in white rhino numbers since 2012,” it added. The black rhino population also increased and reached nearly 6,500 by the end of last year. However, Michael Knight, the chair of the IUCN African Rhino Specialist Group said that despite the growth of Africa’s rhino population, conservation was still necessary as poaching remained high. In 2022, Africa lost 561 rhinos to poaching, 448 of which were killed in South Africa. Poaching losses nearly doubled in Namibia, increasing from 47 rhinos killed in 2021 to 93 in 2022.


nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
No, Viral Video Does Not Show Sonia Gandhi Hoisting National Flag, Old Video Viral With False Claim.The viral video is from the 137th Foundation Day celebration of the Congress party, held on December 27, 2021, in New Delhi. On the party’s Foundation Day, the flag of the Congress party was hoisted by Sonia Gandhi, Sr. Congress Leader, not India’s national flag. Twitter user Harsh Vyas was among the users who shared the post in Hindi on August 15, 2023, writing. In order to ascertain the fact behind viral video claiming to show Sonia Gandhi hoisting national flag, we conducted a Google reverse image and keyword search. During this process, we came across several media reports that were shared on December 27 and 28, 2021 which indicated that the flag (bearing the imprint of a charkha/spinning wheel) seen in the video fell as senior Congress leader Sonia Gandhi was hoisting the party’s flag on Congress’ Foundation Day celebration in New Delhi.
Viral Video Of Defaced Indian Flag Is Not From Howrah Bridge In Kolkata.We conducted a keyword search on Facebook and found that the video had been shared by multiple social media users. We noticed a comment on one such post by a user, pointing out that the video showed the Kankinara bridge in Bhatpara, North 24 Parganas. Taking this as a clue, we searched Facebook using relevant keywords and found a Bengali page named “Kankinara Maane”, dedicated to Kankinara. We found the same video posted by the page on June 28th 2023, with a Bengali caption that reads, ” This is a viral video of Kankinara bridge. We then looked at the images of Kankinara bridge on Google maps and found a user generated 360 degree image of the bridge. 
Old Video Shared out of context that Rahul Gandhi Relishing Non-Vegetarian Food During Sawan which is not true. We analysed the viral footage frame-by-frame, and spotted “Al Jawahar” written on one of the boards behind Gandhi. Further, we found a video report by Times Of India, dated April 19, 2023, carrying snippets  from the viral video. It stated, “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently made a visit to the iconic Chandni Chowk market in Delhi and indulged in some of the city’s popular street food delicacies. The leader, who is often seen as reserved and serious, showed his foodie side as he savored chaat and gol gappe from one of the vendors in the market.”
A letter written by a leader of a Manipur regional party has been falsely attributed to the Manipur Congress President. No, Manipur Congress President Did Not Blame The Party For Crisis In The State.They also shared a video report by India Today, alleging that the Manipur Congress Chief said that the party is “responsible for the current problem by infiltrating Rohingyas & Bangladeshi for its vote bank.” Newschecker found the claim to be untrue and that the India Today report has been used in a false context.Multiple Twitter and Facebook users shared nearly one-minute-forty-second-long video report alleging that the Manipur Congress President has blamed the Congress for the current crisis in the state.A few others shared a shorter version of the same.
Photo Of PM Modi Looking Inappropriately At Rihanna Is Digitally Manipulated and altered. The Barbadian celebrity had earlier dominated the Indian social and mainstream media in 2021 following her tweet on the farmers’ protest against the now-repealed farm laws by the centre. The image of PM Modi alongside Rihanna was shared online with the caption, “A magnetic force causes his face to turn mysteriously. ” Newschecker found that the photograph has been digitally edited. In the actual photo, the seat next to the Prime Minister is empty and an image of Rihanna from a 2017 event has been digitally added to it.
Odisha Accident , Old Images are shared out of context from Morbi Shared As Cuttack Hospital Renovation Ahead Of PM’s Visit which is not true.A reverse image search on the viral photographs led us to a report by Outlook, dated November 1, 2022, titled ‘Gujarat: Painting, Cleaning Before PM Modi’s Visit As Hospital Tries To Hide Facts.’ The report carried the viral photographs with the caption, “Painting going on inside Morbi Civil Hospital in Gujarat ahead of PM Modi’s visit. ”  A suspension bridge collapsed in Morbi district of Gujarat on October 30, 2022, leading to the death of at least 130 people. PM Modi had visited the victims injured in the collapse at the government hospital in Morbi. Ahead of his visit, the hospital was reportedly revamped. The viral images are from the said incident.
Viral Tweet By President Joe Biden On Rahul Gandhi’s US Visit Is Fabricated and No such tweet was found on the live timeline, or archived versions of Twitter handle @POTUS. 
Karnataka Congress Government  did not Revoke Hijab Ban as the  Old Video Viral With False Claim. The state government has not taken any such decision yet.A Google lens search on the keyframes of the viral footage led us to a Facebook post by @hanif9800, dated February 8, 2022, carrying a clearer, unfiltered version of the clip that is being shared to show hijab wearing girls entering a college in Karnataka under the Congress rule. Following this, we ran a Google lens search on the clearer version of the viral clip which yielded another Facebook post by @CreativeResearcher1, dated February 9, 2022. The post carried the footage with the caption, “There is no power And no strength except with AllAH.”
Viral selfie of caretaker PM was not taken during recent UNGA visit. The selfie, while authentic, was taken in 2019 when Kakar was a senator. It’s unrelated to his tenure as caretaker prime minister.Soch Fact Check reverse-searched the image and found that Kakar himself posted it back in 2019 when he had accompanied the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) chief and the then-prime minister, Imran Khan, to the 74th UNGA session.Some social media users posted Kakar’s selfie in question alongside a picture of Iranian President Seyyed Ebrahim Raisi, who is seen holding up the Quran as he said, “The holy book beckons humanity towards rationality, spirituality, the truth and justice.”
This image does not show the daughter of Pakistan’s former top judge. A reverse image search confirmed that the woman in the image is not Sahar Bandial but TV show host Shiffa Z. Yousafzai.In his short order, cited here (archive), the judge had said the ex-PM hid “the benefits he accrued from the national exchequer wilfully and intentionally” and “cheated while providing information of gifts he obtained from Toshakhana which later proved to be false and inaccurate” during his tenure from 2018 to 2022. PTI leaders and the Supreme Court Bar Association (SBCA) have expressed their reservations regarding the legality of the judgement that led to Khan’s arrest.
Some claimed that this bill criminalises the recitation of Ziarat-e-Ashura, and some claimed that it includes making offensive comments about the companions of the Prophet into the parameters of the Blasphemy Law. Other claims even state that although one such bill has been returned, the other has been passed.  On 7 August 2023, the Senate passed a bill called the Criminal Laws (Amendment) Act which sought to amend the Code of Criminal Procedures (CrPC) and the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC). The amendments proposed in this bill were relevant to section 298A of the PPC and Schedule II, Act V of the CrPC. This bill sought to replace a three-year prison sentence with life imprisonment or at least ten years of imprisonment for blasphemy. Additionally, this bill sought to make the offense non-bailable.
Shehbaz Sharif claimed in his farewell speech that his government did not arrest or harass any political opponents as this is false. Political opponents such as PTI leaders were arrested and tortured during PDM’s tenure. Journalists who reported on sensitive issues were also harassed or detained by the authorities. Shahid Aslam, a freelance journalist, was arrested for allegedly using leaked data about the assets of former Pakistani Army General Qamar Javed Bajwa and his family in anonymous reporting for a news organisation called Fact Focus. However, Fact Focus and Aslam deny this relationship, though Soch Fact Check has not independently verified this. 
The video shows the process of manufacturing rubber bands and  is unrelated to chicken nuggets. It was also posted (archive) — and later deleted — on the social media platform X, formerly called Twitter, by David “Avocado” Wolfe, a self-styled health guru whose claims have been debunked by multiple fact-checking outlets. In its fact check, the AP said McDonald’s confirmed “it does not use lean, finely-textured beef at any of its global locations and hasn’t since 2011”.Australia’s AAP FactCheck wrote in November 2020, “Ammonium hydroxide is not listed as an approved food additive in either Australia or New Zealand.”
The man walking alongside Nawaz Sharif is journalist Kousar Kazmi, not Dilawar or Malik, the latter of whom is dead.Moreover, ADSJ Humayun Dilawar travelled to the University of Hull, which is located in Kingston upon Hull and is at least four hours away from London, where Sharif is living. Lastly, Arshad Malik, the accountability court judge, passed away (archive) in 2020 after he contracted COVID-19. He was bald, unlike Kazmi, the man accompanying Sharif. Using reverse image search tools, Soch Fact Check ascertained that the picture does not show either ADSJ Humayun Dilawar or accountability court judge Arshad Malik.The man accompanying Sharif in the photo is actually Syed Kousar Kazmi, a UK-based journalist who has served as SAMAA TV’s Bureau Chief for the European Union (EU) and posted the image on his X (formerly Twitter) account (archive) on 3 October 2020.
A video showing a muezzin calling “azan” while standing on the rubble of a destroyed building is not from the Morocco earthquake. The video has been on the internet since 2017 and has been linked to different cities, including Iraq and Syria.An Iranian daily newspaper Khabarban published the same video on 19 July 2017. The Persian language news headline translated into English reads, “An Iraqi muezzin calling the call to prayer on the ruins of a mosque.” It further reads, “After the liberation of Mosul, an Iraqi muezzin gave the call to prayer in the ruins of one of the mosques in this city.”A reverse image search through Tin Eye shows the same video was shared in 2017 with the same claim that it belongs to Iraq.  Soch Fact Check could not independently verify the authenticity of this video whether it’s from Iraq or not but it has been on the internet since 2017, not from the Morocco earthquake in 2023.
The video of a man rescuing a newborn baby from soil is not from the 2023 Morocco earthquake; it was from another incident in India where a baby was found buried alive in Kanpur.Kanpur Dehat Police also posted a video message in which the Hindi language caption that translated into English reads, “Statement from the jurisdictional officer Bhoganipur in relation to the newborn baby found in the farm under Moosanagar police station area.”  In the video, the officer said that the child was found by a couple in Pulandar, Musangar. The baby is healthy and under the supervision of doctors. The police are taking action on the complaint of the village head.Furthermore, Soch Fact Check spoke to Jyoti Dwivedi,  a fact checker from IFCN-accredited Aaj Tak, who confirmed that the video is from India. She also said that their team had spoken to the police and local journalists who verified that the incident happened in a village in the Kanpur district in India.
A viral image circulating on WhatsApp falsely claimed that Pakistani currency notes of 500, 1000, or 5000 rupees with a serial number starting with AF, CE, or HO are fake and that the State Bank of Pakistan has issued a press note to alert the public. This claim is false and no such notice was issued.The representative also said that the SBP regularly issues public notices and advisories regarding counterfeit currency notes on its official website and social media accounts. On the SBP website, we found that the 5000 Rupee banknote is still in circulation.  The representative also advised Soch Fact Check to check the SBP’s website for any updates on currency matters and to avoid relying on unverified sources of information. Furthermore the notice seems doctored. 
The Government of Pakistan did not issue a notification banning the Rs 5000 note from 30 September 2023.The false notification gained mixed views on social media. Some people shared it, confused about whether it was true or not, while others believed it to be true. Some more posts can be seen here, here, and here on Facebook.The notification also has different font sizes and structures, something not typically seen in government documents, which makes it unreliable. Caretaker Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Murtaza Solangi, also debunked the claim. The post caption reads, “This is fake. The Govt of Pakistan shall act against the people spreading this kind of fake news to create chaos.”
Viral image of a foreign woman alleged to be involved in the 9 May riots and protests is actually Czech model Tereza Hluskova, who was arrested for smuggling drugs in 2019.  Through reverse image searches, we found that this image was used by several websites reporting the news of Czech model Tereza Hluskova’s arrest by the Punjab police for drug trafficking in Pakistan in 2019 and the news of her acquittal in 2021.This news was initially covered by AFP Prague in November 2021 and published on Alarabiya News. According to this article, the model Tereza Hluskova, aged 25, was sentenced to eight years and eight months in prison for trafficking nine kilograms of heroin to Lahore in January 2018. Similar articles were also published by The Mirror UK, The US Sun, and Daily Nation Pakistan in March 2023.
The FIA did not raid Shaukat Khanum Hospital and recovered $260 million worth of foreign currency; the viral image was actually of a raid at a Mexican mansion in 2007.Through Google reverse image search, we found this image was first published on 16 March 2007 by Reuters in an article headlined, “Police find $206 mln drug cash in Mexican house.” The article states that the police had found $206 million in cash, belonging to a drug smuggler who imported chemicals used in making methamphetamines. This cash was stacked in his mansion in Mexico City. Along with the cash, the police also seized 7 firearms, a Mercedes Benz vehicle, and machinery used to make tablets. 
The IMF has not issued any statement regarding the electricity protests in Pakistan as of now. The video in question is, in fact, from February 2023, when IMF chief Kristalina spoke to a German media outlet.The publication explains that Georgieva was speaking to German media outlet Deutsche Welle (DW) on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference. The IMF had “urged Pakistan to protect the poor and impose more taxes on the wealthy as the South Asian nation seeks to unlock funds from the global lender to keep its economy afloat”, it said. The X (formerly Twitter) account for DW Asia had tweeted the interview at that time as well.
The Canadian Parliament did not pass a bill suggesting loans should not be offered to Pakistan until it holds free and fair elections.no information available on the Canadian Parliament’s website or with any mainstream credible news organisation confirms that the Parliament suggested no loans should be granted to Pakistan under the current government until free and fair elections are conducted. However, a few parliamentary orders dictate that the current situation in Pakistan is unstable and the suggestion for Magnitsky sanctions on members of the Pakistani military was considered. 
The raised platform is actually known as St Jeremiah’s Pulpit in the Saqqara necropolis in Giza, Egypt, and has no connection to Imam Hussain.Soch Fact Check reverse-searched the image and found that it was shared on Copts United, a website that hosts a daily electronic newspaper focusing on the Coptic cause. The Copts are an indigenous Christian community from Egypt.Soch Fact Check also found tourism company Tour Egypt’s website that mentions the Monastery of Jeremiah at the Saqqara necropolis, which is located in Memphis, an archaeological site near Cairo.
The claim that Maggi instant noodles are made from rotten flour and pig marrow is false. The instant noodles sold in Pakistan are halal and noodle factory’s do not look like the video in question.The instant noodles sold in Pakistan are halal, and the factories where they are produced, whether in Pakistan or India (in the case of Maggi), do not look like what was shown in the video. On July 18 2023, Soch Fact Check received a video that was widely shared on WhatsApp groups claiming Maggi noodles are made from rotten flour and pig marrow. The video shows  an informal and unhygenic manufacturing operation and alleges that this is how big brands such as Maggi make instant noodles.  The video also claims that the noodles are harmful to health and can cause cancer.It is an independent organisation accredited by the Pakistan National Accreditation Council (PNAC) that verifies the compliance of food products with Islamic dietary laws. They do not contain any pig marrow or any other animal-derived ingredients.
Contrary to claims, the Imran Khan enclosures at Multan and Lahore stadiums have not been removed as confirmed by the PCB. The tickets for the enclosure are still being sold online. Umar Farooq Kalson, head of the media department of PCB, confirmed to Soch Fact Check that the Imran Khan enclosures have not been removed. “It’s absolutely not true. Imran Khan enclosure was live for Multan games and there are still tickets left for Lahore leg,” he said. Soch Fact Check also checked the official website where tickets are being sold and found that the Imran Khan enclosure’s tickets are available for the upcoming Asia Cup match between Nepal and Afghanistan on 3 September at Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore, and for the other matches being played in Pakistan as well. The tickets retail between Rs 2000 to 6000.
The posts claiming to show Virat Kohli and Babar Azam together in Faisalabad during the 3006 U-19 World Cup in Pakistan are false, and Azam is not in them. Babar Azam was only 12 years old in 2006 and did not play in the competition. This tweet was viewed 185,000 times and interacted with 3,741 times on Twitter. Moreover, a reverse image search of a screenshot from the video revealed it is actually a video of Virat Kohli viral in India from the same tournament, which has been reported on many times by Indian websites, but there is no mention of Babar Azam being present in any of the articles. Scoopwhoop identifies the well-known players present in the video, including Cheteshwar Pujara and Piyush Chawla; they make no mention of Babar Azam or any Pakistan players being present.
The image is digitally manipulated; Khan originally appeared clean shaved in the picture in question amid reports of poor jail facilities.On 22 August 2023, the Instagram account @iloveimrankhan._ posted (archive) an image showing Imran Khan  the former prime minister and chief of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) sporting a grey beard and grey hair, with a pair of black sunglasses, and wearing a black kurta shalwar as he stepped out of a vehicle ahead of a court hearing. Khan “refuses to use the shaving kit provided by the prison administration, so he has grown a beard”, Mir wrote in his post on X (formerly Twitter), which included a snippet of his programme in which the PTI chief’s lawyer, Barrister Gohar Khan, was invited.
Both Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky. , and the image’s creator confirmed that the picture was generated by artificial intelligence and is not from bathrobe on the steps of the U.S. Capitol.. The photo is in response to the Senate’s relaxed dress code, which has caused controversy among politicians. Charles confirmed to PolitiFact that he created these images using AI. And Paul himself got in on the joke and retweeted the image writing, "I thought I was clear when I said no photographs." Many credited Fetterman’s attire with inspiring the dress code change, which was previously suit and ties for men. Fetterman regularly wears hooded sweatshirts and gym clothes on Capitol Hill and has taken to voting from the Democratic cloakroom doorway in his otherwise prohibited attire, according to The Associated Press.
PolitiFact found no evidence to support claims that giant human skeletons have been discovered and documented. In 2012, researchers found that a skeleton dating back to the third century had a rare growth condition called pituitary gigantism. They estimated that person would have been about 6. 5 feet tall. We’ve got a bone to pick with this claim: It’s unsubstantiated. PolitiFact found no corroborating evidence suggesting these giant skeletons had been found, and the claim appears linked to previous ones about giant skeletons that have repeatedly been debunked. In the article, researchers concluded that an unusually tall skeleton uncovered during an archaeological excavation near Rome had been "affected by pituitary gigantism, a rare growth disease. "
Poland has increased its military presence along its border with Belarus, Russia’s ally, but hasn’t declared war against either country including russia.
In Afghanistan, while 13 Marines were killed during the U. S. withdrawal in 2021, no Marines were left behind and none remain there today there. In Russia, Paul Whelan was taken into custody in 2018, and was not part of the prisoner exchange involving WNBA star Britney Griner. He is a U. S. Marine Corps veteran, but was discharged from the Marines in 2008 after being convicted on charges related to larceny. He was in Russia as a private citizen, not on Marine business. That said, the U. S. Marine Corps itself uses the slogan “Once a Marine, Always a Marine. ”
No, news cameras didn’t shut off when Biden was asked about giving hit list to Taliban.A reporter did ask Biden about reports that his administration gave the Taliban a list of evacuating American and Afghan officials during an Aug. 26 public appearance. However, the exchange didn’t take place as described in the post, and news footage of the event doesn’t shut off as he responds. ​Biden did field questions about allegations that his administration gave a list of evacuating American and Afghan officials to the Taliban. However, the exchange didn’t take place as described, and news footage of the appearance doesn’t cut out. 
Schumer is wrong that among Americans in Afghanistan, “all” who “have wanted to come out have come out.” On Sept. 7, the State Department acknowledged that there are still “somewhere around 100” American citizens who want to leave Afghanistan. That’s incorrect; the State Department has acknowledged that there are still "somewhere around 100" American citizens who want to leave Afghanistan. Schumer’s office later said that he had misspoken. We rate the statement False. Meanwhile, the current count of Afghans who want to leave but haven’t been able to evacuate yet is uncertain. However, as of late August, there were an estimated 250,000, according to estimates by nonprofits cited by the New York Times.
Photos show service members killed in 2017 military plane crash, not 2021 Kabul suicide bombing.These photos show 15 Marines and a Navy corpsman killed in a military plane crash in Mississippi in 2017.  On Aug. 29, a military transport plane carrying the remains of 11 Marines, a Navy medic and an Army staff sergeant landed in Delaware. Military Times published their photos, which are different from the photos that appear in the Facebook post. This post was flagged as part of Facebook’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
No evidence that US Air Force plane evacuating Afghanistan airport was fake as it is orignal and true . The U.S. has flown more than 82,000 people out of Afghanistan in recent days. In one of the largest airlifts in U.S. history, the U.S. flew 82,300 people out of Kabul between Aug. 14 and the afternoon of Aug. 25, according to official figures. These included a mix of U.S. citizens, green card holders, recipients of a special immigrant visa for helping the U.S. military or diplomats, refugees, and people seeking temporary humanitarian parole.Afghans who are cleared to fly to the U.S. are brought to military bases, where vetting continues. 
The people under arrest in a viral social media video  were charged with theft, according to New York police and weren’t detained for sleeping in public concrete blocks, and the video provides no evidence that they were. The video does not include footage of the men sleeping on concrete blocks or any other evidence to support its claim. We emailed the New York Police Department about the video and a spokesperson sent a statement that said the arrest took place at 10:58 p.m. Sept. 14 in front of 237 W. 42nd St. That’s the address of a Target store near Times Square.This post was flagged as part of Meta’s efforts to combat false news and misinformation on its News Feed.
A viral video does not show Missouri state Sens. Bill Eigel and Nick Schroer using flamethrowers to burn books. The two Republican lawmakers used the devices to burn empty cardboard boxes before the flamethrowers were auctioned off as part of a local conservative group’s fundraiser. The event organizer confirmed that no books were burned. Conservative lawmakers in several states, including Missouri, have been pushing to restrict certain books from schools and libraries. Missouri enacted a law last year that banned books with sexually explicit content from school libraries, which led to the removal of almost 300 books across the state.
Former House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., wasn’t arrested.Although the detention of any member of Congress, let alone the longtime representative, would draw broad media attention, we found no news reports or other credible sources to corroborate the claim that she was arrested. We also found nothing to substantiate the claim in PACER, a database of federal court records.
Story about Navy SEALs saving missing kids in Maui is fabricated as There is no credible evidence, such as news reports or statements from the U.S. Navy, that such a rescue took place.The story was originally shared by a website known for fabricating news stories.Only 31 people remain unaccounted for after the Maui wildfires.  Although detailed and creative in its storytelling, there is no evidence that these events occurred. We rate the claim that Navy SEALs rescued 15 missing children from cages in Maui False.This is not Real Raw News’ first fabricated story about the Maui fires. On Aug 24, PolitiFact debunked the site’s viral claim that U.S. Marine Corps and Federal Emergency Management Agency employees were caught in a gunfight.
This video is not recent and isn’t related to clown attack in paris as it’s from a 2015 news broadcast. It shows a crowd in Paris that began running because of a potential gun threat, which turned out to be a false alarm. Clowns were neither involved nor pictured. The clown hysteria began in 2016 with unsubstantiated reports of clowns trying to lure children into the woods in Greenville, South Carolina. Soon after, numerous reports of similar creepy clown sightings popped up across the country — most of which were hoaxes or pranks. We rate the claim that a video shows an April 2023 clown attack in Paris False. We searched for credible news reports of recent clown attacks in Paris and found none.
No proof the World Economic Forum called for ‘COVID-19 concentration camps’as this claim originated from The People’s Voice, a site that frequently publishes false information. The article offered no evidence and we found no proof to support the claim. We searched Nexis news archives and Google and did not find any press releases or legitimate news reports that support the claim. A five-judge panel is expected to decide on the New York case in a few months.We rate the claim that the World Economic Forum is calling "for COVID concentration camps" False.
We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make  $500 payment to customers. Then came the catch. we did not take the bait. We also found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make any such payment to customers. We rate this post False.The post claims that recent Walmart customers are entitled to $500 from the company. After filling out a survey via the link and indicating that we hadn’t shopped there before, we received a notification that we were qualified to try to win a prize. 
No, Donald Trump didn’t call Michelle Obama ‘Mike’ in a tweet.Searching X, the website formerly known as Twitter, we found no such tweets in either Obama’s or Trump’s feeds. We also found no news coverage or other credible sources reporting such an exchange. Previous tweets from Trump directed at the former first lady drew media attention, and a charge in which he questioned her birth name would certainly inspire multiple articles. But there are none. We rate claims this supposed tweet from Trump is authentic False.
We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make  $500 payment to customers from 2022. Then came the catch. we did not take the bait. We also found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources that Walmart is required to make any such payment to customers. We rate this post False.The post claims that recent Walmart customers are entitled to $500 from the company. After filling out a survey via the link and indicating that we hadn’t shopped there before, we received a notification that we were qualified to try to win a prize. 
No, former President Barack Obama didn’t reveal how his personal chef died.The state’s office of the chief medical examiner ruled his death an accident. Obama remembered Campbell in social media posts, writing that he "showed us what true character looks like" and said, "I’ll miss him every day." We found no evidence in news reports or other credible sources  that Obama revealed that Campbell died in some other "mysterious" way. A recent Facebook post floats the idea that former President Barack Obama recently divulged new information about how his family’s personal chef died. 
In Westport, Connecticut, drones are not “scanning (people) for COVID-19 symptoms” as   Westport Police Department spokesperson told PolitiFact the department is not using drones for this purpose. Lt. Eric Woods, a Westport Police Department spokesperson, told PolitiFact he’s "not sure why this is coming up today, but no we do not use drones for this purpose."We rate the claim that in Westport, Connecticut, "drones are "scanning (people) for COVID-19 symptoms" False.Soon after it was announced, residents and organizations, including the ACLU’s Connecticut branch, opposed the plan over privacy concerns. Two days after the police department announced the program, it scrapped the plan.
A 2021 World Economic Forum video used the COVID-19 pandemic as an analogy to warn world leaders to prepare for potentially damaging cyberattacks but There is no evidence it was code for a broader conspiracy involving COVID-19 spread.We rate the claim that a World Economic Forum video reveals a conspiracy behind COVID-19 spread False.But claims that the COVID-19 pandemic was planned are false and have been debunked many times. And the World Economic Forum video, which you can watch in full below, is not using subtext to reveal its global plot to spread a virus.
Trump’s White House website shows that trump gave Fauci the recognition on his last day in office.Presidential commendations are a public recognition of someone’s achievements or contributions to the country. We found examples of these being given to everyday people.Trump’s campaign did not answer our requests for comment.  But it has since grabbed the attention of at least one competitor. Trump’s opponent for the Republican nomination, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, has criticized Trump’s decision to give Fauci a commendation. A review of Nexis news archives and a Google advanced search shows that the commendation got little news coverage as Trump prepared to leave the White House and Biden prepared to be sworn in.
No, CNN did not break news about a Pentagon ‘plan to implant Americans with nanotech particles’.No, CNN did not break news about a Pentagon ‘plan to implant Americans with nanotech particles’.The Pentagon did not announce a plan to "implant Americans with nanotech particles," and CNN reported no such "breaking news."Neither CNN nor any other reputable media outlets announced any such breaking news about nanotech implants, either. We searched news stories through Nexis news archives and advanced Google search and did not see any reports that supported the claim. We found no evidence after doing a keyword search of the U.S. Defense Department’s website and checking its press releases.
More than 60 people missing after Maui fires, not 1,000 children.More than a month after deadly wildfires ravaged the community of Lahaina on Maui, Hawaii,  an Instagram post claims that hundreds of children are still unaccounted for. The police department and the FBI have released a list of the names of 66 people who had been reported unaccounted for as of Sept. 9, two days before this Instagram post was made. A spokesperson for the Maui Joint Information Center told fact-checking site Lead Stories that number was current as of Sept. 11 but wouldn’t give the people’s ages. But we found no credible evidence to support the claim in the post. 
An "unreleased photograph of the late queen" was issued by the palace Sept. 7 to mark the anniversary of her death,  We rate claims that this Instagram image is an authentic photo of the queen False.Reverse-image searches on multiple sites Google, Bing, Yandex, TinEye  turned up no other instances of this photo appearing online. Considering the broad, breathless news coverage the royal family draws, it’s unbelievable that a newly released photo of the queen on the day she died would merit no media reports beyond an Instagram account with about 3,500 followers.
This video is from a 1985 documentary about native Hawaiians being arrested and evicted on a beach in Honolulu, which is more than 100 miles from Maui not from maui , where the wildfires ignited in August.We rate that claim that the video shows Hawaiians being evicted after the Maui wildfires False.Hawaiian video production company Nā Maka o ka ’Āina, or "The Eyes of the Land," produced the 37-minute documentary, which aired in 1985 on PBS Hawaii and local public broadcast channels.The video is from the trailer for a documentary about the June 3, 1985, evictions of native Hawaiians living on Waimānalo Beach Park in Honolulu. The state capital is on the island of Oahu, more than 100 miles from Maui.
No, Congress isn’t printing election ballots without Donald Trump's name.The TikTok also includes a clip of a Sept. 3 episode of "CNN Newsroom with Jim Acosta. " But neither Acosta nor his guest — Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson — claimed Congress plans to print ballots without Trump’s name. That’s because Congress never made such a plan. First, state and local administrators run elections. Congress doesn’t print election ballots. Second, Acosta and Benson were discussing the theory that Trump could be barred from a second term because "the 14th Amendment’s disqualification clause expressly forbids anyone from serving who’s engaged in an insurrection or rebellion against the government. "
A high school in Selma, Alabama, won a grant to fund a field trip to a "queer heritage site" and money to support LGBTQ literature for students. The award came from the non-profit "It Gets Better Project," which focuses on "empowering LGBTQ+ youth through school-based projects in all 50 states. "  "Amid ongoing efforts to silence or stigmatize discussion about LGBTQ+ identity in the classroom, it's more important than ever to ensure that LGBTQ+ students feel that they are welcomed, accepted and able to be their full selves at school," Brian Wenke, Executive Director of the It Gets Better Project said, according to 1819 News.
Washington Post contributing columnist and National Review editor Ramesh Ponnuru called out the media and fact-checkers over the Democratic Party abortion stance until birth.   He noted a recent interview Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis did with NBC's Dasha Burns, during which he said a lot of the left supports abortion up until birth. "There’s no indication of Democrats pushing for that," Burns responded. She was criticized over her defense of Democrats on X, formerly known as Twitter. Ponnuru wrote, "News outlets from the Associated Press to CBS to The Post have offered similar ‘corrections’ when Republicans have said that Democrats favor keeping abortion legal even late in pregnancy. "
Social media users mocked and attacked President Biden for his claim that he had been "working out" instead of learning about a plane crash in Russia Wednesday. Yevgeny Prigozhin, the founder of Russia's Wagner Group who challenged the rule of Vladimir Putin just months ago, was killed in a plane crash that left 10 people dead outside of Moscow, state media reported. Reporters caught up with Biden in Lake Tahoe to get his comments on the matter."I don’t know for a fact what happened, but I am not surprised. There is not much that happens in Russia with Putin not behind, but I don't know enough to know the answer. I've been working out for the last hour and a half," Biden said.
Tracy Shannon believes her ex-husband lost himself in "fetish behavior," which began with what she described as "cross-dressing. " Shannon discovered the behavior after she had her first child. A Christian mom says that transgender ideology tore her family apart after her husband transitioned to become a woman. "There were some rather disturbing things that did happen in those years," Shannon said. She recalled her husband taking her lingerie on weekends and becoming visibly aroused while shaving his legs. "There were some incidents of cross-dressing in the marriage that would come up. It didn't seem extremely out of control. We would go to counseling, and he'd say he'd never do it again. So I believed him several times," she said.
Republican presidential candidate and former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley emphatically rejected allowing biological males in girls’ locker rooms during the first Republican presidential primary debate on Fox News Wednesday. Haley was asked about her previous statement that biological boys playing in girls' sports is the "women’s rights issue of our time. " "As a parent, the one thing you want is for your child to have a better life than you did," Haley began, taking the time to also address other educational issues. "And we can talk about all of these things and there’s a lot of crazy woke things happening in schools, but we've gotta get these kids reading. If a child can't read by third grade, they're four times less likely to graduate high school. So we need to make sure we bring in reading remediation all over this country. We need transparency in the classroom because parents should never have to wonder what’s being said or taught to their children in the classroom.
A clinical transgender psychologist, is sounding the alarm on the approach many of her colleagues have taken in recent years regarding medical and social treatment for gender dysphoria among children and teens in the United States and faced emotional blackmailing. Erica Anderson told Fox News Digital that health professionals need to explore all the factors related to what is going on with a child and "not to dissuade them of their assertive gender, but to understand how other things might be related," including mental health issues like a history of abuse, developmental problems, anxiety or depression. Anderson has practiced as both a pediatric and adult psychologist for over four decades and has also worked in the healthcare field, most recently in behavioral pediatrics at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF), where she primarily worked in pediatric endocrinology at the Adolescent Gender Center.
After an Afghan asylum seeker in Germany admitted to raping and assaulting numerous girls over the course of three years, a german judge ruled  that the migrant would not get any jail time. Instead, he would receive probation and sensitivity training, Fox News Digital can confirm. Mohammad, 23, came to Germany from Afghanistan in 2015. He graduated from high school, and maintained a job until he was arrested in January 2023 for assaulting girls from 2019-2022, at least one who was as young as 16. A rape victim from 2019 is still in therapy today, according to a German publication Bild. The ruling of probation and anti-aggression training set off a fire in the German press, with Bold writing, "He rapes 16-year-olds and gets released! " The report proceeded to mention how the judge and defense attorneys cited the juvenile as an example of an integrated refugee in German culture, citing his educational background and hobby of playing in the football club.
Vivek Ramaswamy, the Ohio-born entrepreneur , came across like a "blunt-force instrument" during the Fox News Republican Debate on Wednesday, a former top Bush aide told the network after the event. Ramaswamy made waves during the forum, routinely clashing with several other candidates, most notably former Vice President Mike Pence as the two traded barbs about age and governing experience. Ari Fleischer, a former White House spokesman for then-President George W. Bush, said he was impressed by Ramaswamy's tact. "I thought [Florida Gov. Ron] DeSantis was real good. Second place to me was Vivek Ramaswamy," he said on "Hannity. "
911 calls in Seattle could soon be answered by unarmed "crisis responders" instead of police officers through a new "alternate response team" spearheaded by a Democratic council member. Councilwoman Lisa Hebold announced on Friday that they are beginning to hire the first six new positions for a new pilot program to provide for unarmed "crisis responders" to respond to certain emergency calls. "Well, you know, usually I'm complaining about how delayed we are and how frustrated I am that we're not meeting our benchmarks for developing this program. But today I'm really, really happy to report that the city is hiring for the six positions for its first pilot alternate response team. It’s going to be a way for 911 operators to dispatch calls to somebody other than police, somebody other than fire, a crisis responder who is unarmed," said Herbold.
A Canadian professor who specializes in "fat studies" claimed that aiming for an obesity-free future was "fatphobic" and blasted the "biopolitics" agenda as an attack against fat people. Fady Shanouda is an associate professor at the Feminist Institute of Social Transformation at Carleton University in Canada. Shanouda "draws on feminist new materialism" to examine the intersections between "fat studies, "colonialism, racism…, and queer- and transphobia. " The Critical Disability Studies scholar wrote that it was "fatphobic" to have a public health conversation and to tamp down on obesity, according to a Monday article in The Conversation.
Viral sensation Oliver Anthony was given a boost by conservative social media influencers who helped push "Rich Men North of Richmond" atop the cultural zeitgeist. a prominent country music journalist believes the song was going to explode under its own volition either way. "I've definitely never seen something on the scale of virality that Oliver Anthony has experienced," Kyle "Trigger" Coroneos told Fox News Digital. Coroneos, who founded Saving Country Music in 2008 to help promote independent musicians, has seen other "earnest acoustic songwriters" go viral after posting videos, sometimes even piling up millions of views, but the success of the "Rich Men North of Richmond" singer blows away other artists Coroneos has covered.
According to multiple German outlets, two childcare locations in North Rhine-Westphalia introduced plans for designated spaces where children may engage in sexual games as part of their “sexual exploration. ”Reports of daycares in Germany implementing “sexual exploration rooms” for young children have ignited a wave of controversy and concerns among parents.  One daycare in Rheinberg reportedly encourages children to participate in “doctor games” where they can “explore” each other’s bodies. Children are told to pick one of their peers they want to “explore” and to “carefully” examine their bodies. A similar initiative was introduced in a daycare center in Hanover and was previously reported by the German newspaper Bild earlier this year. In that case, the daycare informed parents about the “doctor games. ”
Shouts of "leave our kids alone ! " filled downtown Los Angeles streets Tuesday as approximately 200 protesters supporting parental rights in education measures – including the right to be informed about their child's gender selection – marched toward Unified School District's offices from city hall. Police set up "skirmish lines" to keep demonstrators from clashing with pro-LGBTQ+ activists outside LAUSD's offices, as some activists are arrested in downtown. police eventually declared the assembly "unlawful" after some parental rights demonstrators allegedly attempted to "push counter-protesters back. " Three were arrested, CBS Los Angeles reported.
A video of the incident posted to social media by Paul Leavitt shows the unidentified man begin reading an excerpt from the graphic novel "Flamer" by Mike Curato, in which a character asks, "Who wants my hot wiener? " One Fort Worth Independent School District board member abruptly slams down her gavel and calls for security. A man was forcibly removed by security at a Texas school board meeting Tuesday night as he attempted to read an LGBTQ graphic novel from the podium.  As the man begins reading from the following page, an officer walks across the room, where he is met by two other security personnel. The three officers surround the man who holds onto the microphone and continues to read. People in the audience began shouting over one another and the board member slams her gavel repeatedly.
An Asian-American candidate for the Saint Paul, Minnesota, reparations commission has withdrawn her name after Black community leaders protested her hiring as disrespect . The protestors claim she did not understand African Americans' "lived experience" in the city. On Tuesday, Black community leaders led a chant outside of Saint Paul's City Hall condemning the City Council's decision to hire a non-African American policy aide to staff the reparations commission. Trahern Crews, a leader of the Saint Paul's reparation movement, insisted the protest was "not about the person. " "It's just that we need somebody who has the lived experience, knowledge of reparations, knowledge of the racial wealth gap and how it impacts the descendants of slavery who reside in St. Paul," Crews told Star Tribune.
Walsh, who served as global chief brand officer and managing director of DMG Media’s U. S. operations (stylized as dmg media), will become managing director of external relations for Bilt Rewards, a company that allows Americans to be rewarded for paying their rent. Influential Daily Mail executive Sean Walsh is stepping down after accepting a high-level position at Bilt Rewards. "These past ten years have been an extraordinary and life-changing journey that I will be forever grateful for," Walsh said. "I'm very proud to have represented the brands of dmg media across the globe and I leave with sincere gratitude and respect for my colleagues, our dedicated readers and our commercial and external partners. "
Gold Star mom Paula Knauss Selph put the Biden administration's foreign policy on blast , two years after 13 U. S. service members – including her son Army Staff Sgt. Ryan Knauss – were killed during the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. "Is the administration current going to be responsible for what happened in Afghanistan? We have yet to see anyone that has been responsible for it…" she told "Fox & Friends First" co-hosts Todd Piro and Carley Shimkus, Wednesday. "Where in America are we right now? Where in this world are we right now with our power that we once held as the strength among the nations? We are considered weaker now than ever. Who will stand up and show better foreign policy at this time? "
Country music sensation Oliver Anthony released a new video for his song  'Brink of the next world war',  on Tuesday. Anthony, a red-bearded Virginia farmer and musician, and dog owner, rose from relative obscurity to ranking #1 on Billboard Hot 100 for a song he recorded in the American wilderness, "Rich Men North of Richmond. " Anthony’s new single is already closing in on nearly one million views on YouTube alone, as the singer is estimated to be making around "$40,000 a day from sales and streams of his music, according to the trade journal Hits. " Last week, Anthony said he had "brushed off" $8 million offers from "people in the music industry. " Country music sensation Oliver Anthony released a new video for his song, "I Want To Go Home," on Tuesday.
Biden briefly visited the area on Monday after historic wildfires ravaged the land and took the lives of over 110 people. More than 800 people, including children, remain missing. CNN's chief climate correspondent Tuesday praised President Biden as the "empathizer-in-chief" who said all "the right things" on his trip to Maui, Hawaii. Although Biden’s overall response to the wildfires, including the visit, has been criticized, CNN's Bill Weir praised each step, particularly for his attempt to relate to Maui citizens with personal stories. "He did serve as empathizer-in-chief after five days of being mostly silent on the issue publicly, but the governor said he was working behind the scenes to assure first responders that the feds had their back on this.
Artificial intelligence (AI) generated deep fakes are likely to have a "massive" impact on voters in future elections and there isn't much that can be done right now to stop it, according to an AI advisor for the United Nations (UN). Speaking with Fox News Digital, Neil Sahota said his sources warned the growing use of deep fake advertisements may very well be "the greatest threat to democracy. " "A lot of people—and I think those in the media too, are calling the 2024 election 'the deep fake election' that is probably going to be marred by tons and tons of deep fakes," Sahota said. "Not much can be done right now to stop any of that. " While the UN and various other organizations and corporations are working quickly to roll out software that can detect deep fakes, Sahota noted that common verification tools, such as watermarks, are relatively easy to circumvent in their current iterations.

An asylum seeker smashed an immigration office in Germany Monday as the country faces mounting claims from refugees. Authorities said a 29-year-old asylum seeker from Cameroon, a country in Central Africa, grabbed a metal barrier outside an office in Magdeburg and smashed nearly all the windows. The perpetrator was arrested shortly after, and authorities reportedly began criminal proceedings. Magdeburg is a central German city on the Elbe River. According to Bild, none of the employees were injured. However, many were terrified.
An airline passenger credited with saving a man's life mid-flight from a fentanyl overdose is urging Narcan to be made available on all planes. Drew Ashley and his father, who run a First Aid, CPR and AED training company, were on a Florida-bound Southwest Airlines flight when a passenger began showing signs of an overdose. "I was sitting in the row behind him, my father was sitting right next to him," Ashley told "America's Newsroom" Tuesday. "I was asleep, and my father started yelling my name as he pulled him to the aisle… we have our own company, the Life Saviours… so we knew what to do, the signs to see for an overdose. Just knowing the situation, he was going into respiratory arrest with the overdose. We were just doing what we had to do. Keep getting him air and keeping him alive. "

Senate Homeland Security Committee member Ron Johnson, R-Wis. , claimed new reporting about then-Vice President Joe Biden's role in the ouster of a Ukrainian prosecutor investigating an energy company on which his son sat on the board showed the current president to be "totally responsive" to his son. Johnson said new reporting called into question whether Biden's widely-circulated boast about encouraging a Ukrainian prosecutor's ouster was actually in line with U. S. policy at the time. In 2018 remarks before the Council on Foreign Relations, Biden spoke of dangling $1 billion in U. S. loan guarantees to Ukraine contingent on having prosecutor Viktor Shokin fired.

Republican presidential candidate Sen. Tim Scott, S. C. , doubled down on his criticism of Florida's Black history curriculum, suggesting his GOP rival Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Vice President Kamala Harris are actually aligned on the issue in an interview with Fox News Digital. Last month, Vice President Kamala Harris spearheaded attacks against the Sunshine State's new education guidance, saying it replaces "history with lies" and that students would be "told that enslaved people benefited from slavery. " In reality, the thorough curriculum, which was co-authored by a Black professor, details harsh conditions slaves endured and also explains that "slaves developed skills which, in some instances, could be applied for their personal benefit" both while enslaved and when they became free.
CNN senior legal analyst Elie Honig said he is "perplexed" at the way that the Department of Justice has conducted the Hunter Biden probe, claiming it has made "a real mess" and will have to deal with the "consequences. " "The Lead" host Erica Hill agreed, adding that the DOJ risks losing the "public trust" over how it has handled the probe. The segment aired in the afternoon, with Hill bringing up a recent New York Times article detailing how now-special counsel David Weiss was looking to drop the case against Hunter Biden earlier this year, until IRS whistleblowers came forward to allege misconduct. Now that Weiss has been named special counsel in the probe, and is spearheading the investigation, Hill remarked to Honig that it is "quite the evolution" in the case and suggested that the behavior of the DOJ is unusual.
Oliver Anthony, the rising star behind the viral hit "Rich Men North of Richmond," is reportedly making $40,000 a day thanks to his music. The now-iconic red-bearded Virginia farmer and musician rose from relative obscurity to ranking #1 on Billboard Hot 100 for a song he recorded while out in the American wilderness. The song's video, posted on August 8, has already reached over 33 million views on YouTube and has made headlines in news outlets across the political spectrum. The video's description said the intent behind the song was to "give hope to the working class and your average hard working young man who may have lost hope in the grind of trying to get by" and it indeed has become widely viewed as a blue-collar anthem across the United States. 
GOP presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy in an interview with Fox News clarified remarks he gave to The Atlantic that some critics say alluded to the possibility that federal agents were involved in the 9/11 terrorist attacks. "I think it is legitimate to say how many police, how many federal agents, were on the planes that hit the Twin Towers. Maybe the answer is zero. It probably is zero for all I know, right? I have no reason to think it was anything other than zero," Ramaswamy told the outlet in released audio. "But if we're doing a comprehensive assessment of what happened on 9/11, we have a 9/11 commission, absolutely that should be an answer the public knows the answer to. " CNN’s Kaitlan Collins pushed Ramaswamy about his remarks on Monday asking him if the quote was wrong.
President Biden involvement in his son Hunter’s business dealings "deserves a serious investigation," Washington Post columnist Henry Olsen wrote on Tuesday. In his latest column, Olsen wrote that he originally "long dismissed" stories regarding Hunter Biden, but "recent revelations" changed his mind. "There’s more than enough evidence to merit a thorough investigation of President Biden’s involvement in his son’s business dealings," Olsen argued. Olsen shared that recent testimony from former Hunter Biden business associate Devon Archer as well as claims that Biden used different aliases while dealing with Ukrainian policy merits some suspicion. Though these allegations don't prove that the president did anything illegal, he noted these claims suggest Biden "was aware of Hunter’s dealings and wanted to keep his son in the loop. "
Former Barack Obama suggested on "America’s Newsroom" that President Biden’s comparing a kitchen fire to the historic Maui wildfires to relate to victims depicts "empathy" and connects with voters. "Now, Joe Biden went to Hawaii, and I don't believe based on the reporting, he took a single question, but he did try and relate to those there from a kitchen fire at his house 15 years ago. Watch how this one," Fox News host Bill Hemmer said before showing a clip of Biden’s comments. "I don't want to compare difficulties, but we have a little sense, Jill and I, of what it was like to lose a home," Biden said. "Years ago, now, 15 years, I was in Washington doing ‘Meet the press’… Lightning struck at home on a little lake outside the home, not a lake a big pond. It hit the wire and came up underneath our home, into the…air condition ducts. "
Ivy Snitzer, 20-year-old acting student, was cast as Paltrow's body double in the 2001 film "Shallow Hal," which starred Paltrow alongside Jack Black and Jason Alexander talked about her eating disorders. In the film, Paltrow played Rosemary, a 300-pound woman with whom Black's character falls in love after being hypnotized to only see people's inner beauty. Schnitzer's role was having her body filmed for close ups of Rosemary's arms, torso and thighs, while Paltrow wore a fat suit for scenes that featured the character's face.
Some Lahaina residents on Maui blasted President Biden's comments during his visit to the island Monday after deadly wildfires left a trail of devastation , with one resident labeling some of his language as "tone-deaf" and another writing off the visit as a "multimillion-dollar photo-op" during their Tuesday appearance. " Among Biden's comments under scrutiny, he compared the ravaging flames to a fire that started at his home in Delaware 15 years ago, retelling a story in which he said the fire "destroyed a significant portion" of his residence. "I don't want to compare difficulties, but we have a little sense, Jill and I, of what it was like to lose a home," Biden said.g pond. It hit the wire and came up underneath our home into the … air condition ducts. "
A California director of a gender clinic and medical school professor claimed there are "infinite" gender identities, including one called a "gender Tootsie Roll pop. " For decades, Dr. Diane Ehrensaft has been one of the most prominent voices pushing gender ideology in the medical and psychology field. She is the director of mental health and chief psychologist at the University of California-San Francisco (UCSF) Benioff Children's Hospital gender development center. She is also a professor at UCSF School of Medicine. Ehrensaft discussed in a slide deck on gender ideology – reviewed by Fox News – a "gender Tootsie Roll pop" identity. The self-identified feminist referred to this agenda as "The New Gender Wars," while previously she has said it was a "Gender Revolution. "
 While discussing his lengthy New Yorker feature on Musk in a CNN appearance, Farrow said a common sentiment among his peers was that Musk does "significant work" that is likely a "a net positive for all of us. " Journalist Ronan Farrow suggested Tuesday that Elon Musk's use of ketamine might contribute to his "erratic" behavior and questioned the amount of power the billionaire tech mogul has."But the Twitter thing is different, right? And we are seeing in these recent years that Elon Musk has behaved erratically at times, that the biographical facts that you mentioned that led to him at times talking about his loneliness, his sadness, the fact that there have been questions about his psychopharmacology and public reports about the Tesla board being worried about his Ambien use," he said before host Poppy Harlow noted his piece mentioned Musk's ketamine use.
During a "CBS Mornings" interview, NYC  Mayor Eric Adams pleaded with President Joe Biden to declare a "state of emergency" to help the city deal with a massive migrant surge. Adams explained that thousands of new migrants to the city haven't been able to find work due to federal laws that require a time period that asylum seekers must wait before seeking jobs. This means nearly 100,000 migrants in the city could be relying on the city government’s aid rather than being able to support themselves for "years" to come.CBS prefaced its sit-down with Adams by noting that the mayor’s office has recorded providing "’shelter and care’ for over 100,000 asylum seekers" since last spring. The segment also mentioned a new facility in Randall’s Island, New York which provides housing, food and other basic amenities for "up to 3000 people."
The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) put out a statement in support of actor Bradley Cooper after he was accused of indulging in anti semitic tropes with his portrayal of Leonard Bernstein in an upcoming biopic of jewface. "Throughout history, Jews were often portrayed in anti semitic films and propaganda as evil caricatures with large, hooked noses," the ADL wrote in a statement to TMZ. "This film, which is a biopic on the legendary conductor Leonard Bernstein, is not that. " A number of accounts, identified by NBC News in a recent story headlined, "Bradley Cooper accused of ‘Jewface’ over prosthetic nose in Leonard Bernstein biopic ‘Maestro,’" based their attacks on speculation that Cooper was using a "prosthetic nose". 
A preschool in England has removed a book from their curriculum after children were exposed to illustrations of men kissing in bondage and transgender people with surgery scars. Parents voiced their frustrations after it was revealed that kids as young as four had been shown the book "Grandad's Pride," written by award-winning author Harry Woodgate. One illustration from the book, which has a 4+ reading age, shows transgender men with markings from breast augmentation or removal surgery, commonly referred to as "top surgery. " Another illustration shows two men who are partially naked in leather bondage gear. One man has a leather cod-piece wound against his crotch and garters strapped down his thighs. Both men in the image passionately kiss.
Orange Unified School District board members in california will vote in early September on a proposal to inform parents when their children identify as transgender. The school district says it is considering the policy in the name of protecting the "fundamental rights" of parents and guardians to be involved and informed about their children’s lives. The LA Times shared a copy of the school’s proposal, which laid out the defined policies. "The Orange Unified School District Board of Education strives to foster ongoing communications between the District and parent(s)/guardian(s)," the document said. "To that end, the Board of Education supports the fundamental rights of parent(s)/guardian(s) to be informed of and involved in all aspects of their pupil’s education to promote the best outcomes. "
Actor and commentator George Takei is best known for his portrayal of Mr. Sulu in the television and film franchise "Star Trek. " Star Trek actor George Takei attempted to draw parallels between the internment of Japanese-American citizens during World War II and current legislation against transgender operations on minors. In more recent years, he found new fame as a liberal commentator and activist. "Despite decades of advocacy for LGBTQ+ rights, the troubling pattern of scapegoating persists," the actor wrote in a social media post featuring an internment camp and a transgender activist sign. "As someone who experienced forced relocation as a child, the sense of déjà vu is deeply unsettling. It's crucial that we learn from history, push for change, and use our votes to secure a better future. "
Mask mandates are making a return to Lionsgate’s Santa Monica, California, office, according to a memo sent to employees on Monday. In the email provided to Fox News Digital, Sommer McElroy, Response Manager for Lionsgate/Starz, stated that "effective immediately" masks will be required on certain floors in their Santa Monica offices "until further notice. " According to Deadline Hollywood, this encompasses "nearly half of the company’s employees at its flagship office at 2700 Colorado Ave. in Santa Monica. " "Employees must wear a medical grade face covering (surgical mask, KN95 or N95) when indoors except when alone in an office with the door closed, actively eating, actively drinking at their desk or workstation, or if they are the only individual present in a large open workspace," McElroy said.
Liberal comedian Bill Maher pled to Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy that his rapping on the campaign trail has to stop. In recent weeks, Ramaswamy has embraced his roots of "Da Vek," his college-era alter ego that would perform rap to his classmates at Harvard and Yale. The GOP hopeful broke into freestyle rapping during an appearance last month on "Fox & Friends" and he went viral earlier this month at the Iowa State Fair for performing Eminem's hit song "Lose Yourself. " On Sunday's installment of the "Club Random" podcast, Maher brought up the term "Renaissance man," something he described as someone "doing everything. "
 According to the court order, U. S. District Judge Sarah Geraghty ruled that state officials who passed the law restricting transgender surgeries are "enjoined" from enforcing the prohibition on prescribing hormone therapy to minors.A federal judge on Sunday temporarily blocked a part of a new Georgia law that bans most gender surgeries. Furthermore, Geraghty’s order found that it is "substantially likely" that the law could permanently be struck as unconstitutional pending a decision on the merits of the case.
Republican Texas State Rep. Brian Harrison pushed back and bashes on "woke, ultra-liberal Marxist socialists" in taxpayer-funded public institutions, who he claims are working to indoctrinate children, during an interview with Fox News Digital. "I think people are fed up of not just having this ultra-liberal extremist, Marxist, socialist ideology forced upon them and forced on their kids," Harrison said. "They're sick and tired of having to be the ones that pay for it themselves through their hard-earned tax dollars. "  "They don't want their property tax money or their sales tax money or their school tax dollars going to fund some woke, ultra-liberal Marxist socialist to indoctrinate their children," he added.
Kamala Harris agreed with the premise of a question she got in an interview with the outlet published on Monday, according to Politico Playbook. "I think that that is the case ,It’s what it is. Vice President Kamala Harris told Politico that she think she gets more media scrutiny than past vice presidents in a new interview. I'm not going to sit here and say, ‘Oh, you know, it’s not fair,’ because, you know, I am not new to these things," she said in response to a question about "whether she faces more media scrutiny than her predecessors as VP. " In Playbook's write-up of the Harris interview, the authors suggested criticism of the vice president was not typical in past administrations.
A Texas county attorney is opening up on her decision to leave the Democrat Party and switched to  GOP , fears she would be called a "traitor" due to her Hispanic heritage and abandoning party . Kleberg County, Texas Attorney Kira Talip Sanchez joined "Fox & Friends" Monday after announcing she was switching to the Republican Party, citing the border crisis as a key issue in her decision."In recent years, I feel like my former party has moved further left and it's no longer aligned with my values," Talip told the show.
English singer-songwriter Billy Bragg released his own pro-union song responding to Oliver Anthony's hit "Rich Men North of Richmond" that became touted as a blue-collar anthem by conservatives after recently going viral. Bragg's clap back song titled "Rich Men Earning North of a Million" took a pro-union stance to address the struggles of "working folk," complete with a push for free healthcare and a diss of divisive culture wars. "If you’re selling your soul, working all day. Overtime hours for bulls--- pay. Nothing is gonna change if all you do is wish you could wake up and it not be true," Bragg sings in the first verse.

SUNY Buffalo State University has been accused of discriminating against 44 migrants housed in campus dormitories after the school announced it would evict its visitors before students return to class on Tuesday. In May, Buffalo State agreed to let migrants stay in their dorms because the nearby Jericho Road Vive Shelter was over capacity and could no longer adequately support the influx. Jericho Roads’ founder and CEO, Dr. Myron Glick, claimed that school officials recently informed him that Buffalo State had decided against extending the agreement with his organization because of concerns from parents over student safety. Parents allegedly spoke out after two migrants were charged with sex crimes at Cheektowaga hotels, just ten miles from the campus.

Members of Congress from New York are demanding answers from the state's Democrat governor, Kathy Hochul, following a report released by PDE  on millions of dollars of funding flowing into America’s K-12 classrooms. "Unfortunately, this investigation discovered 12 school systems in our own state have received money from the CCP," the letter reads. "This includes the New York City Department of Education, which received $375,575. 00 in CCP-connected funding. Considering China’s adversarial relationship with the United States, this is deeply problematic and presents a national security concern for our constituents and state. " PDE, a grassroots organization dedicated to fighting indoctrination in the classroom, released its "Little Red Classrooms" report last month that cited evidence linking the Chinese Communist Party to American K-12 schools, which found that students are subjected to Chinese propaganda, language and culture programming through state-funded programs.
CNN legal analyst Elie Honig criticized the Department of Justice and Special Cousel David Weiss on Monday and said they made an "unholy mess" of the Hunter Biden investigation. During an appearance on "CNN This Morning," host Poppy Harlow cited reporting from the New York Times that said Weis was initially willing to forgo any charges against the president's son. The reporting also said that Weis changed his position after a "pair of I. R. S. officials on the case accused the Justice Department of hamstringing the investigation. " "The takeaway is that the DOJ has made an unholy mess of this whole Hunter Biden situation," Honig said. "I fault David Weiss, who I’ve spoken positively about on this show, given his long service as a U. S. attorney. "
Viral sensation Oliver Anthony said he does not believe the United States will last more than another generation if the country continues along its current trajectory. On Saturday, Anthony performed in front of thousands of fans in Moyock, North Carolina, as part of a free concert. Following the show, the "Rich Men North of Virginia" singer-songwriter said that while he feels appreciation from people with whom the song resonated, he would rather people appreciate each other and their individual struggles. He said that, hopefully, people can find the energy he put into the song and manifest it in their personal lives.
Austin, Texas, residents are feeling the aftershocks of the "defund the police" movement as officers shortages reportedly are leaving 911 callers on hold and crime criples to continues to spiral out of control. Thomas Villarreal, president of the Austin Police Association, blamed the city council for neglecting local law enforcement, telling "Fox & Friends" on Monday that the alleged missteps have concocted a larger problem. "We just continue to have a city council that doesn't show its police officers that [it] cares about them," he said.
A CNN analyst claimed Republicans mastered "verbal jiu-jitsu" by rebranding terms such as "woke," "liberal," "social justice warrior" and even critical race theory in order to combat Democratic talking points and ideology. CNN senior writer John Blake penned the piece headlined, "How conservatives use ‘verbal jiu-jitsu’ to turn liberals’ language against them," that detailed claims that creative language has helped the GOP thrive. "Republicans are masters of verbal jiu-jitsu. It’s a form of linguistic combat in which the practitioner takes a political phrase or concept popularized by their opponent and gradually turns into an unusable slur. Like the Japanese martial art known as jiu-jitsu, its devotees avoid taking opposing arguments head on and instead redirect their opponents’ momentum to beat them," Blake wrote before citing the word "woke" as a key example of his theory.
Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa. , is being compared to the main character of the hit show "Breaking Bad" after he shaved off his goatee and grew a mustache. "Lost a bet with Karl," Fetterman wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter, Saturday. Karl is the name of Fetterman's 13-year-old son. Fetterman's wife, Gisele Barreto Fetterman, shared a screenshot of a text conversation with the senator: "OMG WHY," she wrote, later texting that she was "into it. "When asked by an X user what game Fetterman was betting on with his son, his wife said it was "[c]hess, always chess. " Political commentators were divided on Fetterman's new choice of facial hair.
Legendary rock band Queen's 1978 classic "Fat Bottomed Girls" has become cancel culture's latest victim after the song was dropped from the band's new greatest hits collection for younger listeners that debuted on the audio platform Yoto. Though moving songs to the platform aims to introduce Queen to kids, some are critical of the decision to omit the song from the track list, blasting the move as "woke" or "ridiculous. " "'It is the talk of the music industry, nobody can work out why such a good-natured, fun song can't be acceptable in today's society," one music industry professional – whose name was withheld – told U. K. outlet The Daily Mail.
Thousands of people attended singer Oliver Anthony's free concert in North Carolina on Saturday following the massive success of "Rich Men North of Richmond. " Speaking on-camera for the first time with Fox News, Anthony said he hopes the song, which has been touted as a blue-collar anthem, represents more than just the working class. "People deal with depression and anxiety and misery and hopelessness no matter where they are at," Anthony told Fox News correspondent Griff Jenkins. "They don't have to be blue-collar Americans. I mean I've gotten messages from people in countries that I don't know how to pronounce. This is something that has touched people globally and there's a reason for that," he said.
A video claiming to show the planet Earth from the surface of the moon is being shared in false context as the recording from the Chandrayaan-3.Reverse image search of the keyframes extracted from the viral video led us to the original video posted by a user named Mithilesh Keshari on X (formerly Twitter) on 20 August 2023. However, he clarified that the video was AI-generated and not real footage from Chandrayaan-3. Furthermore, the Earth footage (here & here) captured by Chandrayaan-3 and released by ISRO does not align with the visuals depicted in the viral video.Another photo is being shared on social media, with the claim that it depicts visuals of Mars captured by Chandrayaan-3 against the lunar horizon. 
 Subsequently, Zimbabwe’s former fast bowler, Henry Olonga, took to Twitter to set the record straight, after which media outlets retracted their earlier news reports about zimbabwe Cricketer  heath streak. Initially, news reports circulated announcing the demise of Heath Streak but  Furthermore, Mid-Day reported that Heath Streak, who is battling cancer, personally communicated that he is alive and well. Addressing the situation, Streak reportedly told his writer, “It is a total rumour and a lie. I’m alive and well. I am very upset to learn that something as big as someone apparently passing can be spread unverified, especially in our day and age of social media.”
 Although the photo showing multiple transpotation modes was captured in Rajahmundry, the original photo does not contain an aeroplane.A reverse image search on the photo shared in the post led us to a Facebook page called ‘Our Rajamahendravaram,’ where the same photo was posted in November 2021. The caption for the post reads, “4 modes of transportation in one pic. Beautiful edit.” The photo credit is attributed to an Instagram account with the handle ‘Aurobindo_sf.’
A collage of images is being shared on social media claiming that the pictures depict Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is doing something wrong which is not true. Amid Rajnikanth’s defence for his action of bowing to Yogi Adityanath, citing a longstanding tradition of expressing reverence to Yogis or Sanyasis by touching their feet, this post is going viral on social media.
 American police did not employ UP’s ‘bulldozer model’ to arrest the accused. On reverse image search of the photo shared in the post ‘bulldozer model’, information related to the claim was found to be reported by several news channels. From the reports  it is clear that a man named Terran Green shot Harris County Sheriff’s Deputy, Joseph Anderson during a traffic stop and was also accused of wounding three law enforcement officers. To end the long standoff and arrest Green, the SWAT team used heavily armoured vehicles to capture him.Finally, Green was captured using the hydraulic arm of the vehicle called the Rook, smashing into the residence. Besides, Green was not the owner of the house, in fact, public records show that the house was rented by a woman. Michael Hill, the owner of the house was contacted by FBI officials before the attack seeking floor plans for the residence.
A video is being widely shared on social media  falsely claiming that the Narendra Modi government is going to deposit money into the accounts of siblings on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan not sure. Further, the video explains about Uttar Pradesh government’s Divyang Pension Yojana and the eligibility criteria for the scheme. Let’s verify the claim made in the viral video.On a relevant keyword search to learn about the claim made in the video, we found that no such official announcement was made by the government. Subsequent research showed that no state government made such a declaration. Further keyword searches related to such news directed us to similar videos being shared by the same channel . Also, various news articles  debunked these claims shared by this channel.
Firstly to check if any of the news reports about the Luna-25 spacecraft’s crash landing contained the viral video, we performed a keyword search on the internet but This search did not lead us to any credible sources (except for photos of the moon sent by the spacecraft). The official statement of the Russian space agency also did not include any video. Furthermore, a reverse image search on Google using a few keyframes from the viral clip revealed that this is a screengrab from a 3D visualisation of the moon created by “NASA science Visualiser Ernie Wright.”To sum up, an unrelated edited video is being shared on social media claiming it to be the visuals that show the crash landing of the Luna-25 spacecraft on the moon’s surface.
A post is being shared on social media claiming that Madhya Pradesh’s Bageshwar Dham temple head Dhirendra Shastri, also known as Bageshwar Dham Sarkar, is offering Moble recharge to indians which is not true. The post purportedly made by Bageshwar Dham Sarkar’s Facebook handle shared an URL link below and asks the users to click on the link to avail the benefits of this free money said to be distributed by Bageshwar Dham Sarkar. Let’s verify the claim made in the post.On clicking the URL link provided below the post, the URL led to a webpage claiming that Bageshwar Dham Sarkar intends to distribute Rs. 1999 to each individual in Madhya Pradesh. The webpage asks users to click on a red button to avail the benefits of this offer. However, after clicking the red button, the webpage didn’t lead to any other page.
 The news clipping shared in the post states that during a test conducted by a consumer on the same electrical line, a regular electric meter displayed a reading of 279 units, while the smart meter showed a reading of 429 units. After a month-long protest in Rajasthan’s Kota City over smart meters, the CEO of CESC company clarified in a press conference that the misconceptions about smart meters showing higher readings than standard electric meters were untrue. He stated that the company would install the meters only after ensuring consumer satisfaction. 
The same photo was found to be published by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) on Flicker in April 2011. ITDP published the image describing it as a pedestrian bridge located in Kunming City in China. The description provided below the photo stated that the photo was taken on 28 November 2009.Many pedestrian foot-over bridges are constructed over busy streets in Gujarat, Telangana, and other parts of the country. But the photo shared in the post does not show a pedestrian flyover in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur or any other city in India.
Media further reported that the Dubai administration woke up when the video went viral on social media and Pakistani users started condemning the act. Burj Khalifa later displayed the country’s national Flag. The official Instagram page of Burj Khalifa posted a video of the Pakistani flag displayed on the building on 14 August 2023, wishing all the Pakistanis a happy Independence Day.Celebrating Indian Independence Day, Indian National Flag was also displayed on Burj Khalifa on 15 August 2023.
A social media post asserting that a document sourced from the National Archives states that Gandhi used to be monthly allowance by the British government is being widely shared however is is false. This allowance supposedly aimed to cover his expenses. The post, which has gained significant traction, insinuates a potential connection between Gandhi and the British authorities as suggested by the shared document. Through this article let’s fact-check the claim made in the post.The viral document in question is in fact, a letter authored by G.F.S. Collins, who served as the Secretary to the Home Department of the Government of Bombay, addressed to the Secretary of the Home Department of the Government of India.
A high-profile government climbdown that legalised a type of cannabis medicine on the NHS five years ago misled patients, campaigners say. It was thought the law change would mean the unlicensed drug, which treats a range of conditions, could be freely prescribed by specialist doctors. But fewer than five NHS patients have been given the medicine, leaving others to either pay privately or miss out. The government says safety needs to be proven before a wider rollout. Legalisation of whole-cannabis medicine was hailed as a breakthrough for patients - giving either NHS or private specialist doctors the option to prescribe it if they believed their patients would benefit. Medical whole cannabis uses the entire cannabis plant - which includes the compound THC, the part which can make people feel high.
Female surgeons say they are being sexually harassed, assaulted and in some cases raped by colleagues, a major analysis of NHS staff has found. BBC News has spoken to women who were sexually assaulted in the operating theatre while surgery took place. The study's authors say there is a pattern of female trainees being abused by senior male surgeons, and this is happening now, in NHS hospitals. The Royal College of Surgeons said the findings were "truly shocking". Warning - this story contains some graphic detail. There is support for anyone affected here. Sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape have been referred to as surgery's open secret. There is an untold story of women being fondled inside their scrubs, of male surgeons wiping their brow on their breasts and men rubbing erections against female staff. Some have been offered career opportunities for sex.

The NHS is starting to give booster shots of Covid and flu vaccine to older people living in care homes in England over concerns about a highly-mutated new Covid variant that is spreading. The faster-than-planned rollout, which begins on Monday, is to quickly top up the protection of those at most risk. There have been 34 confirmed cases of BA. 2. 86 in England, with 28 of those behind a Norfolk care home outbreak. It is too early to know if it is more serious than past variants. Starting with adult care homes and people who are housebound, other eligible groups will begin to be invited for their shots soon afterwards. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have also brought forward the booster rollout to early September.
A new Covid variant is spreading in England and is behind an outbreak at a care home in Norfolk, health officials say. There have been 34 confirmed cases of BA. 2. 86, with 28 of those at the care home. There have been no deaths. It is too early to draw conclusions on whether it is more serious than past variants, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said. People eligible for a booster jab this autumn are encouraged to come forward. The government recently announced that the vaccine rollout would be earlier than planned because of the new variant. It will start next week. The UK Health Security Agency's latest briefing on Covid includes an analysis on BA. 2. 86, an Omicron spin-off. It says out of the 34 cases confirmed through sequencing in a lab, five people have needed hospital treatment. Based on detection of multiple unlinked cases in different regions of the UK, it's likely there is "established community transmission of BA. 2. 86", UKHSA says. Scotland has also recorded two cases.
A father whose daughter died after travelling to Turkey for weight-loss surgery has urged people to think again before doing the same. Shannon Meenan Browse from Londonderry was 32 when she died in August. The mother-of-four travelled for a gastric sleeve operation 18 months ago but, according to her father, got sick almost straight away. Shane Meenan said his daughter could not keep any food down in the wake of the operation. He said the illness got so bad her teeth began to rot due to constant vomiting. The family were told she died in Altnagelvin Hospital from "malnutrition due to gastric sleeve".

Scientists have grown an entity that closely resembles an early human embryo, without using sperm, eggs or a womb. The Weizmann Institute team say their "embryo model", made using stem cells, looks like a textbook example of a real 14-day-old embryo. It even released hormones that turned a pregnancy test positive in the lab. The ambition for embryo models is to provide an ethical way of understanding the earliest moments of our lives. The first weeks after a sperm fertilises an egg is a period of dramatic change - from a collection of indistinct cells to something that eventually becomes recognisable on a baby scan. This crucial time is a major source of miscarriage and birth defects but poorly understood. "It's a black box and that's not a cliche - our knowledge is very limited," Prof Jacob Hanna, from the Weizmann Institute of Science, tells me.

More than 140 bleed kits are being installed in communities in an effort to prevent "tragic loss of life". Avon and Somerset Police, NHS England South West and HeartSafe will install the life-saving kits across the region. Each of the 144 kits contains dressings and tourniquets, nitrile gloves, scissors and an instruction guide. Ch Insp Mike Vass said that in the event a person is seriously injured, they hope the kits will go some way to help saving someone's life. The kits are being installed onto the side of existing HeartSafe defibrillators in Bristol, Somerset, Bath and North East Somerset and South Gloucestershire. Ch Insp Vass, Avon and Somerset Police's knife crime lead, said: "We know we cannot police our way out of serious violence, it has to be a partnership approach, not just between us and our partners in health and social care, but also with members of our communities who can play a key part in helping us. "

A hospital trust has apologised after there was a 24-hour delay in treating a teenager for a potentially life-threatening illness. Ella Watts attended The Royal Albert Edward Infirmary in Wigan with flu-like symptoms, chest pain, vomiting and diarrhoea in December 2018. She was triaged as a lower priority patient and returned home after being told there was a four-hour wait. Miss Watts, then 17, was rushed back to hospital with sepsis the next day. Miss Watts, who is from Skelmersdale, Lancashire, was put on intravenous fluids and diagnosed with acute kidney injury secondary to sepsis - when the body attacks itself in response to an infection. She was admitted to the high dependency unit and then transferred to intensive care. She subsequently developed respiratory failure and needed assistance with her breathing. Miss Watts was discharged home a week later but, now aged 21, she has said she continues to suffer psychologically having developed post-traumatic stress disorder following her time in hospital.
Women in labour are often being denied their first choice of pain relief, after a hospital suspended gas and air. North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust temporarily stopped using Entonox in Peterborough's maternity ward in February. Some mothers have called the suspension "unfair" and "completely unacceptable". The trust said it was suspended "to protect midwifery and medical teams" and it was working to reinstate it. Hollie Nolan gave birth to a baby boy, Cole, on 9 September at Peterborough City Hospital (PCH), describing her experience as "challenging". During her two previous births she had relied on gas and air - a combination of nitrous oxide and oxygen which helps with pain relief and anxiety.

The Welsh NHS may have overspent by more than £800m by the spring of 2024, according to BBC Wales analysis. Inflation has hit hospitals, leading to spiralling fuel, staff and drug costs, while demand for treatment has risen due to the post-Covid backlog. Health Minister Eluned Morgan wants health boards to find cuts that cause "the least damage to patients". But she warned "difficult choices" would need to be made to tackle the "massive" overspend. She previously warned that the NHS was "unsustainable" in its current form. Ms Morgan has placed all seven Welsh health boards under higher levels of financial scrutiny together for the first time, pointing to "extreme financial challenges" and blaming UK government austerity and record inflation. Rising inflation, dealing with the Covid backlog, an ageing population and covering for staff shortages were cited as the main reasons for the worsening financial situation.

Ariana Grande has said she previously used filler and Botox as "something to hide behind". The singer made the comments in an emotional video for Vogue, in which she also confirmed she stopped the cosmetic treatments in 2018. "Full transparency. . . As a beauty person, as I do my lips, I've had a tonne of lip filler over the years and Botox," she said. "For a long time beauty was about hiding for me," the 30-year-old added. "And now I feel like maybe it's not. " The US star said she "stopped in 2018 because I just felt so. . . too much", adding she wanted to "see my well-earned cry lines and smile lines". As she was speaking, she appeared to hold back tears, admitting she "didn't expect to get emotional" in a video where she was demonstrating how to do a 60s make-up look.

NHS leaders and ministers will meet in Downing Street on Wednesday to discuss planning for winter. The summit will involve the prime minister, health secretary and NHS England boss Amanda Pritchard. The focus will be on what else the NHS needs to help it through the winter. With a record number of people on the hospital waiting list, the threat of continued strikes by doctors and long waits for emergency care, concern is growing over how the NHS will cope. The event comes after the launch of the winter flu and Covid vaccination campaign earlier this week. An extra 5,000 hospital beds are already in the process of being opened - increasing capacity by about 5%. And there will be at least 10,000 "virtual" hospital beds, where doctors provide remote monitoring of patients - who would otherwise have to be admitted to hospital - in their homes.

Maternity units where dozens of babies have died or been injured are no longer rated inadequate by a care watchdog. Nottingham University Hospitals (NUH) NHS Trust is subject to the largest review of its kind in the UK after a series of failings. Police are also investigating the trust's maternity services, now rated "requires improvement". Bereaved families said the report was a "small step", and added "much more needs to be done". Dr Jack Hawkins and his wife Sarah, who both used to work for NUH, have campaigned for safe maternity services after their daughter Harriet died due
The family of a woman who died during buttock enlargement surgery have praised a coroner for committing to ask the government to warn people about cosmetic procedures abroad. Melissa Kerr, 31, from Gorleston, Norfolk, died at a private hospital in Istanbul, Turkey, in 2019. Norfolk coroner Jacqueline Lake said she would undertake a "prevention of future deaths" report about the case. Ms Kerr's twin, Natasha, said they were "extremely happy" it was being written. At the inquest, which concluded on Tuesday, an expert witness - plastic surgeon Simon Withey - said the high rate of deaths as a result of Brazilian butt-lifts (BBL) amounted to more than one in every 4,000 procedures. Mr Withey said if the risk of the procedure had been explained to Ms Kerr before she had financially committed to it, she would not "in all probability" have gone through with it.

Maternity services run by Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust have been judged good by inspectors. The Care Quality Commission (CQC) also judged Frimley Park Hospital in Frimley as outstanding overall and Wexham Park Hospital in Slough, Berkshire, as good overall. The CQC's rating for the trust remains good overall. The inspections in May were part of a national programme to assess the quality of maternity services. Carolyn Jenkinson, CQC deputy director of secondary and specialist care, said: "Leaders had the skills and abilities to help staff meet the needs of women and other people using services. "They also supported and encouraged staff to develop their skills for the benefit of people using services. "

A six-month wait for results of a cervical smear test has been described as "worrying and extremely frustrating"so  Lisa Clarke from County Antrim said the system is "drastically broken". BBC News NI can reveal that at the start of September, 7,104 women were waiting three to six months for results. The Department of Health (DoH) said it "fully acknowledged that the backlog needs to be addressed". Ms Clarke said she was referred for a smear test by her GP after she was treated for bleeding and other gynaecological issues. Smear tests are a cancer screening service offered to women aged between 25 and 64. Results usually come back within 12 weeks.

A group of firefighters are cycling 248 miles (400km) in aid of a cancer charity, following the breast cancer diagnosis of one of their wives. Jessica Parsons, from Bath, was diagnosed with metaplastic squamous cell carcinoma in June 2022. Her husband, Matt, is embarking on the three-day journey from Bath with nine of his colleagues on Thursday. Ms Parsons said: "I feel very humbled to think they're doing that to help people like me. " The team of firefighters, from the Avon Fire and Rescue Service, will be setting off from Bath Fire Station as soon as their night shift finishes on Thursday morning. They chose to cycle to the Eiffel Tower as Ms Parsons is half French and was born in Paris. Mr Parsons, will be joined by his colleagues, Kit Chapman, Rich Wheeler, Ian Manfield, Ben Parsons, Alex Gapper, Alex Werren, Liam Higgs, Pete Showering and Jon Holmes. They will be cycling more than 62 miles (100km) every day for three days until they reach their destination.

Thousands of workers at four London NHS trusts are set to go on strike from Wednesday in a pay and staffing row. More than 2,800 Unite members at Barts Health NHS Trust; Barking, Havering and Redbridge University Trust; East London Foundation Trust and Guys and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust say they will walk out. Nurses, pathologists, cleaners and porters are among those taking part. NHS England said the strike would have an "unprecedented impact on the NHS". Chris Streather, London's regional NHS England medical director, said urgent and emergency would be prioritised on strike days. Unite's Sharon Graham said the action was planned "to combat low pay". Barts Health NHS Trust staff will strike for a total of eight days, on 13 and 14 September and from 16 to 22 September.

The Isle of Man's director and head of nursing has urged union members to call off planned strike action over pay. A 12-hour walk out is planned by Royal College of Nursing (RCN) members from 08:00 BST on Thursday. Paul Moore warned the staffing of essential services could fall to "dangerous" levels during the period, causing patients "pain and suffering". But Estephanie Dunn from the RCN said low pay had "made care unsafe" and not strike action. Manx Care's "negligence" had led to the profession being in the "dire state" it is in now, she said. The union's members staged the Isle of Man's first ever nursing strike in July after a breakdown in talks over pay and conditions. Mr Moore said he saw "patients not getting the care they needed, having pain, being in discomfort".
Researchers have grown and kept human cells alive in a artificial eye in a laboratory. The team at Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford, Essex, hope it could be the next step towards treatment for age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Prof Barbara Pierscionek, who led the research, said it was an "exciting breakthrough". Macular Society chief executive Cathy Yelf said the development was "encouraging". Using nanotechnology, a 3D replica was created to support the growth of the cells, much like scaffolding. The replica mimics the macular layer at the back of the eye. The university hopes the next step will be to conduct clinical trials. Prof Pierscionek said: "We've found something that's allowing the cells to grow and be viable in the long term. "
A lawyer who has battled sepsis four times in the past eight years wants to raise awareness of the signs and symptoms to look out for. Alexander Davenport, from Cambridge, was first diagnosed with sepsis in 2015 following an infection. He said: "To go through it four times and be close to death on more than one occasion is nothing short of terrifying. " Sepsis happens when the body attacks itself in reaction to an infection. The father of one first became ill in 2015 after having a cellulitis infection in his arm, and then also developed a stiff hamstring in his left leg. A week later, he was taken to A&E after experiencing redness and heat at the site of the pain, and chills, despite having a temperature of 40C (104F). In the past eight years he has been diagnosed with sepsis on four separate occasions, with a range of symptoms including confusion, nausea, pain, a fever and chills.

MPs will investigate the sexual harassment and sexual assault of female surgeons taking place within the NHS. BBC News reported women being sexually assaulted even in the operating theatre, while surgery took place. And the first major report into the problem found female trainees being abused by senior male surgeons. The Health and Social Care Committee said it would look into the issue and its chair, Steve Brine, said the revelations were "shocking". "The NHS has a duty to ensure that hospitals are safe spaces for all staff to work in and to hold managers to account to ensure that action is taken against those responsible," Mr Brine said. "We expect to look into this when we consider leadership in the NHS in our future work. "
A high-profile government climbdown that legalised a type of cannabis medicine on the NHS five years ago misled patients, campaigners say. It was thought the law change would mean the unlicensed drug, which treats a range of conditions, could be freely prescribed by specialist doctors. But fewer than five NHS patients have been given the medicine, leaving others to either pay privately or miss out. The government says safety needs to be proven before a wider rollout. Legalisation of whole-cannabis medicine was hailed as a breakthrough for patients - giving either NHS or private specialist doctors the option to prescribe it if they believed their patients would benefit. Medical whole cannabis uses the entire cannabis plant - which includes the compound THC, the part which can make people feel high. But patients are being turned away, say campaigners, because doctors often do not know about the medicine, which is not on NHS trusts' approved lists. Some specialists who do know about it say there is insufficient evidence of the drug's safety and benefits to support prescribing.
A surgeon patted the bottom of a female patient in a hospital lift and later told her husband to "go home and fill her up", a medical tribunal has heard. Consultant Tony Dixon is said to have behaved inappropriately more than a week after he performed colorectal surgery on the woman. He appeared at a Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service hearing in Manchester earlier, where he is accused of misconduct in relation to six patients. Mr Dixon denies the allegations. In May 2022, North Bristol NHS Trust admitted more than 200 patients had been given unnecessary bowel operations by Mr Dixon. A review found dozens of people had suffered harm after the consultant gave them pelvic floor surgery using artificial mesh, a technique he had pioneered. He worked at the trust's Southmead Hospital and also at the private Spire Hospital in the city during the time of the allegations, between 2010 and 2016.
Rishi Sunak has been accused of having no clear strategy on China, leaving the UK's future security "handicapped". Sir Keir Starmer said the PM failed to heed warnings and was "desperately playing catch up", during the weekly Prime Minister's Questions session. The Labour leader repeated his call for a "full audit of UK-China relations". Mr Sunak said the UK had the "most robust policy" on China it had ever had and was in line with the country's international allies. It comes amid ongoing controversy about the arrest, in March, of a parliamentary researcher on suspicion of working as a Chinese agent.

North Korea's Kim Jong Un has met Vladimir Putin in Russia in a highly scrutinised visit which was expected to yield an arms deal. After talks ended at the Vostochny space centre, Mr Kim began his long journey home on his private armoured train, Russian state media reported. Speaking later on Wednesday, Mr Putin said the pair discussed "possibilities" for military cooperation. Moscow has indicated it will help Pyongyang develop satellites in return. Both sides denied the US' claim that the talks are aimed at buying weapons to support Russia's war against Ukraine. Besides advanced space technology, Mr Kim is also thought to have asked for food aid in return. The meeting between the two sanctioned regimes, which included senior officials from both sides, took place at a time when their relations with the West are at an all-time low.

The southern Indian state of Kerala has issued an alert after it confirmed that two people have died from the rare Nipah virus. One of the deaths occurred earlier this month while the other took place on 30 August, both in the state's Kozhikode district, officials said. Two relatives of a victim have also tested positive for the virus and are being treated in hospital. The is the fourth Nipah outbreak in Kerala since 2018. The Nipah virus infection is a "zoonotic illness" transmitted from animals like pigs and fruit bats to humans, according to the World Health Organization. It can also be transmitted through contaminated food and through contact with an infected person. People who contract the virus sometimes show no noticeable symptoms, while others show signs of acute respiratory problems. In severe cases, a Nipah infection can result in foetal encephalitis - a serious condition that affects the brain.

At least eight people are known to have died and dozens were injured in a huge fire in an apartment block in Vietnam's capital Hanoi. Some 70 people were rescued from the nine-storey building, state media said. Local reports put the toll far higher. The fire, which broke out during the night, has been extinguished but rescue operations are continuing. Authorities in fast-growing Hanoi say many newly-built apartments do not meet fire safety regulations. The city's population has quadrupled to 5. 25 million in the past 20 years.

The former chairman of China Life Insurance, Wang Bin, has become the latest high-profile boss to be imprisoned as Beijing's crackdown on the financial industry continues. Mr Wang was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve, according to a court ruling seen by the BBC. After two years, the sentence will be commuted to life in prison without parole, the ruling says. In April, authorities warned that the crackdown was far from over. A court in Jinan in eastern China's Shandong province found Mr Wang guilty of taking 325 million yuan ($44. 6m; £35. 7m) in bribes. Mr Wang, who was the firm's Communist Party chief, was also sentenced to a year in prison for illegally hiding 54. 2 million yuan in overseas deposits. He is the latest boss from a major Chinese financial institution to be ensnared in President Xi Jinping's more than two-year longcrackdown on corruption in the $60 trillion (£48 trillion) industry.

In a rare testimony before US lawmakers, a Canadian politician Michael Chong has urged for co-operation between the two countries US and canada to combat foreign interference by china. Michael Chong was himself allegedly targeted by China for criticising its human rights record. He was invited to speak about his experience before a US Congressional committee tasked with monitoring China. He said Beijing's actions pose a "serious, national threat" to Canada. "My experience is but one case of Beijing's interference in Canada," Mr Chong told the bipartisan committee on Monday. "Many, many other cases go unnoticed and unreported, and the victims suffer in silence. " Earlier this year, Canada accused China of targeting Mr Chong with a misinformation campaign on the popular messaging app WeChat.
A judge in Pakistan has ruled Sara Sharif's siblings, who travelled from the UK with her father, should be sent to a government childcare facility. The five children were found at the home of their grandfather in Jhelum, north-eastern Pakistan. Sara, 10, was found dead at her family home in Woking, Surrey, on 10 August - a day after three adults, including her father, left the UK. Post-mortem tests found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". Sara's father Urfan Sharif, stepmother Beinash Batool and his brother Faisal Malik left the UK with five children aged between one and 13. Surrey Police said they would like to speak to the three adults in relation to Sara's death, and were "absolutely committed to conducting a thorough investigation". Pakistan police have so far been unable to locate them.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has left India after a problem with his aircraft extended a testing visit to India's capital by two days. He was meant to fly on Sunday after the G20 summit ended but an embarrassing mechanical snag grounded him. Opponents at home and Indian social media users mocked him for the delay, which came after Mr Trudeau had a tense meeting with Indian PM Narendra Modi. Canada-India relations have grown increasingly strained in recent months. Mr Trudeau's visit "did nothing to mend the frosty ties that he has developed with India", reported India Today on Tuesday. Days before he flew to Delhi, Mr Trudeau unexpectedly said his country was pausing talks on a trade treaty between the two countries.

Dozens of crocodiles have escaped from a breeding farm in southern China during flooding caused by Typhoon Haikui, Chinese authorities said. Around 75 crocodiles made a break for it when a lake in Maoming, Guangdong province overflowed. While some were recaptured, local authorities shot or electrocuted others "for safety reasons". Chinese state media report that eight reptiles have been rounded-up so far, leaving dozens at large. Villagers close by have been told to stay at home. Typhoon Haikui has been tearing across south Asia for more than a week, affecting China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Japan. Seven people have been killed and three others are missing in southern China following the typhoon - now downgraded to a tropical storm - which has caused landslides and flooding.
Police in the north Indian state of Haryana have arrested a wanted cow vigilante accused of being at the centre of the deadly religious violence that broke out there last month. Mohit Yadav, popularly known as Monu Manesar, is accused of instigating violence in Nuh district in which six people died and scores were injured. He is also a prime suspect in the murder in February of two Muslim men in Rajasthan state. He denies all the charges against him. Mr Manesar was caught in Haryana on Tuesday. The state's Additional Director General of Police Mamta Singh confirmed his arrest to the Times of India newspaper. It was not immediately clear in which case has Mr Manesar been arrested, but police said they had charged him for uploading "objectionable and inflammatory" posts under a fictitious name on social media, reports the Indian Express.

Nobel laureate Maria Ressa has been acquitted in the last of five tax evasion cases filed against her in the Philippines, in what is being hailed as a win for press freedom. "You know the song of our generation? You got to have faith," she told the BBC. All the cases were lodged during former president Rodrigo Duterte's term. Ms Ressa's news website Rappler published reports criticising his bloody war on drugs She won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2021 for her fearless reporting in the face of growing authoritarianism in the Philippines, an honour she shared with Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov.

North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un has crossed the border into Russia for a meeting with President Vladimir Putin. They are likely to discuss an arms deal as Russia faces a Ukrainian counter offensive, a US official said. South Korea's defence ministry confirmed that Mr Kim's armoured train entered Russia early on Tuesday morning. It is now moving towards Vladivostok, where Russia is hosting the Eastern Economic Forum. That journey is expected to take another five to six hours. The meeting between the two leaders could take place as early as Tuesday local time - although the statement from the Kremlin said it would happen in "coming days. " Mr Kim is accompanied by senior government officials, including military personnel, KCNA reported. Photos shared by state media showed Mr Kim waving from his armoured train before departing Pyongyang.

Rishi Sunak has said he "will not accept" Chinese interference in the UK's democracy, after it emerged a parliamentary researcher was arrested amid accusations he spied for China. In a statement to MPs, the PM said he told Chinese Premier Li Qiang at the recent G20 summit that any attempted spying "will never be tolerated". The Met Police confirmed on Saturday that two men were arrested under the Official Secrets Act in March. The researcher denies the allegations. The man said in a statement he felt "forced to respond" to accusations in the media. China has rejected the allegations of spying, with foreign ministry spokesperson Mao Ning calling it "malicious slander". House of Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle has warned MPs against identifying the man - who is not being named by the BBC - using parliamentary privilege.
A former Pakistan international cricketer has been given a 12 year prison sentence in the Netherlands for threatening far-right MP Geert Wilders. The case was based on a video posted online in 2018, in which Khalid Latif offered 21,000 euros (£18,000) to anyone who would kill the politician. That was after Mr Wilders made comments about the Prophet Muhammad that were offensive to Muslims. It is considered unlikely that Latif will serve any of his sentence. He currently lives in Pakistan, which has no extradition treaty with the Netherlands. The Dutch authorities have been seeking to question Latif for several years but said they have been given no help from Pakistan. The court ruled on Monday "it was not a stretch to think that somebody around the world would have taken heed of the call to kill Mr Wilders". Presiding judge G Verbeek said his comments were not just an attack on Mr Wilders personally but an attack on free speech.
Lindsay Hoyle speaker has told MPs they should not name the Parliamentary researcher arrested under anti-espionage laws amid facing claims he was spying for China. One of two men arrested in March under the Official Secrets Act, the staffer has since claimed he was innocent and felt "forced to respond" to the accusations. The Commons Speaker told Parliament that some press coverage has been "unhelpful" and told MPs not to discuss security issues in the Commons, but to raise issues privately with him.

US President Joe Biden has said that he raised issues of human rights in India and the importance of a free press with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. Mr Biden was in the Indian capital to attend the G20 summit. He also held a bilateral meeting with Mr Modi. The US president left India on Sunday before the summit ended to travel to Vietnam. Activists and rights groups have questioned India's deteriorating human rights track record under Mr Modi. His government has denied allegations that attacks on minorities, especially Muslims, have risen since his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in 2014. Mr Biden made the remarks at a press conference in Hanoi, where he said he had "substantial discussions" with Mr Modi about continuing to strengthen the India-US relationship.
Several multi-million dollar mansions at a cliffside estate in Hong Kong are at risk of collapse after record rains last week eroded their foundations. The rains loosened the soil and carved the side of the cliff in the southern district of Tai Tam, an enclave of celebrities and tycoons. Landslides led some Redhill Peninsula residents to evacuate on Saturday. Three houses appeared to be at high risk of falling off the cliff, based on photographs. Hong Kong is vulnerable to floods and landslides because many buildings and roads are built into steep slopes and such hazards have been heightened by climate change. Authorities found that two basements had been dug into the ground in one of the homes and they suspect that this was done without approval from the Hong Kong Building Authority.
President Joe Biden has denied that the US is attempting to stem China's international influence, after signing a new historic deal with Vietnam. More than 50 years since the last American soldier left Vietnam, Mr Biden travelled to Hanoi to sign the agreement that will bring the former foes closer than ever before. The Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with Vietnam is a major relationship upgrade for the US. It is the culmination of a relentless push by Washington over the last two years to strengthen ties with Vietnam, which it sees as key to counter China's influence in Asia. It is also no small feat. The partnership with Washington is the highest level of diplomatic ties extended by Vietnam. Mr Biden told reporters in Hanoi that American actions were not about containing or isolating China, but about maintaining stability in accordance with international rules.

Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has praised a joint declaration by G20 leaders in Delhi that avoids condemning Moscow for its war against Ukraine. Russia had not expected consensus and agreement on the wording was "a step in the right direction", said Mr Lavrov. The closing G20 statement denounced using force for territorial gain but made no mention of Russian aggression, prompting criticism from Ukraine. The two-day summit also inducted a new permanent member, the African Union. The 55-member bloc joins at the invitation of hosts India, one of whose key objectives while president has been to make the G20 more inclusive with greater participation of so-called Global South countries. The world's biggest economies reached other key deals in Delhi, including one on climate and biofuels - although there was criticism of the summit's failure to commit to phasing out fossil fuels.

Ukraine has little more than 30 days left of fighting before the weather hinders its counter-offensive, the top-ranking US military officer says. Speaking to the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme, Gen Mark Milley said colder conditions would make it much harder for Ukraine to manoeuvre. He admitted the offensive had gone more slowly than expected. But he said: "There's still heavy fighting going on. "The Ukrainians are still plugging away with steady progress. " Gen Milley said it was too early to say whether the counter-offensive had failed, but said Ukraine was "progressing at a very steady pace through the Russian front lines". "There's still a reasonable amount of time, probably about 30 to 45 days' worth of fighting weather left, so the Ukrainians aren't done.
A researcher at the UK Parliament has been arrested under the Official Secrets Act, amid claims he was spying for China. Police have confirmed two men, one in his 20s and another in his 30s, were arrested under the act in March. Sources have told the BBC one of them was a parliamentary researcher involved in international affairs issues. As first reported in the Sunday Times, it is understood the researcher had access to several Conservative MPs. On Sunday morning, No 10 said Rishi Sunak had expressed concerns about Chinese interference to a senior official from China. A spokesperson said the prime minister had met Chinese Premier Li Qiang during the G20 summit in India, and "conveyed his significant concerns about Chinese interference the UK's parliamentary democracy".

A charity set up in memory of a Scots aid worker killed in Afghanistan hopes to get 20 Afghan medical students to Scotland to finish their studies. Linda Norgrove, from Lewis, was kidnapped by the Taliban in 2010 and died during an attempt to rescue her. Her parents set up a foundation in her name to support projects helping Afghan women and girls. The charity has called on the UK and Scottish governments to make procedures easier for the female medical students. The foundation said that after much waiting and discussions with both governments, it was no further forward in getting the women from Afghanistan to Scotland.
A number of relatives of the father of Sara Sharif have been detained for questioning by police in Pakistan. Sara's father, Urfan Sharif, 41, and his partner Beinash Batool, 29, fled the UK after the 10-year-old was found dead at their home in Woking on 10 August. Post-mortem tests found Sara sustained "multiple and extensive injuries". A police spokesman in Jhelum said 10 close relatives had been detained but not arrested.

North Korea has marked the 75th anniversary of its founding day with a parade attended by Russian diplomats and a Chinese delegation. The Friday event in Pyongyang's Kim Il Sung Square featured uniformed paramilitary brigades. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, a Russian military song-and-dance ensemble and officials from Beijing were all in attendance. The event follows rumours that Mr Kim might meet Vladimir Putin this month. It is understood Mr Kim is planning to travel to Russia to discuss with the Russian president the possibility of North Korea providing Moscow with weapons to support its war in Ukraine. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to comment on the matter when asked by a journalist in Moscow on Saturday, according to the Interfax news agency.
Striking portraits of Queen Elizabeth II painted in a basement in Kabul are key to an Afghan artist's hopes of a new life in Northern Ireland. Noor Arzhang is currently in hiding in Pakistan, having fled Afghanistan under Taliban rule. But some of his artwork, including two contrasting portraits of the late Queen, has made its way to Belfast. Hollywood superstar Angelina Jolie has also taken an interest in his painting - buying two pieces for her US gallery. Since taking power in 2021, the Taliban have imposed numerous restrictions, including on playing music in public. Women have borne the brunt of restrictions on their education, their social lives and what they can wear.
India's Tamil-language film industry is in mourning for popular actor and director G Marimuthu, who died of a heart attack on Friday. Marimuthu, who was in his late 50s, collapsed at a TV studio in Chennai and was pronounced dead on arrival at a nearby hospital. He was one of the main actors in the soap opera Ethirneechal (Swimming Against The Tide) and was dubbing scenes for the series when he died. He also acted in more than 50 films. One of his last film roles was as a villain in the recent blockbuster Jailer, the third most successful Indian film at the box office so far this year. Marimuthu's fellow TV actors rushed to the hospital after hearing the news of his death, India Today reported. Marimuthu's cinematic career began in 1990, when he left his home in the southern village of Pasumalaitheri in Theni and headed to Chennai to become a film director.
Hong Kong and cities across southern China are battling flooding caused by the heaviest rains in over 140 years. On Friday, streets and subway stations were under water in Hong Kong as officials shut schools and workplaces. Emergency services said more than 100 people had been taken to hospital and several rescues had taken place - with a black weather warning issued. Pictures show the rain turning streets into raging rivers, flooding shopping centres and public transport. On social media, people were seen climbing on to cars and other elevated platforms to escape the waters, which have risen several metres-high in some areas, blocking off subway entrances.
PM Rishi Sunak has been accused of leaving Jagtar Singh Johal to "rot in jail" in India, after the Foreign Office ruled out intervening in the case. Mr Johal's brother Gurpeet said the government lacked the "political will" to get him home. The Dumbarton man is facing the death penalty, having been detained in India since 2017. Mr Sunak is in Delhi for the G20 Summit but refused to commit to raising the case with Indian PM Narendra Modi. And in a letter to Mr Johal's local MP, Martin Docherty-Hughes, Foreign Office minister Lord Ahmad said: "Having carefully considered the potential benefits and risks to Mr Johal of calling for his release, as well as the likely effectiveness of doing so, we do not believe this course of action would be in his best interests.
Shares in Apple have fallen for a second day in a row after reports that Chinese government workers have been banned from using iPhones. The firm's stock market valuation has fallen by more than 6%, or almost $200bn (£160bn), in the past two days. China is the technology giant's third-largest market, accounting for 18% of its total revenue last year. It is also where most of Apple's products are manufactured by its biggest supplier Foxconn. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported on Wednesday that Beijing had ordered central government agency officials to not bring iPhones into the office or use them for work. The following day, Bloomberg News reported that the ban may also be imposed on workers at state-owned companies and government-backed agencies.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has taken part in a ceremony to reveal what Pyongyang says is its first submarine capable of launching nuclear weapons. State media said the sub strengthened the country's nuclear deterrent by "leaps and bounds". It has been named Hero Kim Kun Ok after a North Korean naval officer and historical figure. A submarine capable of firing nuclear weapons has long been on the list of weapons North Korea wants to build. In photographs released by state media, Mr Kim is seen standing in a shipyard, surrounded by naval officers, and overshadowed by an enormous black submarine. He is quoted as saying that the sub will be one of the navy's main means of "underwater offensive. "
Police investigating the death of Sara Sharif have translated their appeal into Urdu to reach Pakistani nationals. Sara's body was found in her home in Woking on 10 August, a day after her family members flew to Pakistan. Detectives are displaying posters in English and Urdu at the Surrey town's railway station and taxi ranks. Officers who are fluent in Urdu are also supporting the investigation team to help translate information given by members of the public. Surrey Police have also produced a video-format appeal in Urdu. Detectives said they hope to reach Pakistani nationals living in Woking who do not speak English as their first language.
A former British Army interpreter and his wife "cried tears of joy" after the Home Office agreed to grant a visa for their three-year-old son. Sajid, a taxi driver in Greater Manchester, said officials initially blocked his son's application on financial grounds. But after the BBC contacted the Home Office the family got a reprieve. Sajid is now anxiously waiting for Yousuf, who is currently living with his grandparents in Afghanistan. The father moved to the UK in 2016 where he now works in Oldham. He visited Afghanistan in 2019 when he got married, and his son Yousuf was born there. His wife Mena was given a visa to move to the UK but the Home Office refused entry to their child.
Four suspected high-ranking members of a South Korean doomsday cult have been arrested in Fiji. Two were deported, but a legal injunction prevented the others from being ejected, Fiji media report. The Grace Road Church became notorious after 400 of its members moved to Fiji in 2014 claiming they would be safe from imminent natural disaster. Its founder Shin Ok-ju was jailed in 2019 for holding followers captive in Fiji and subjecting them to violence. The Church has built a business empire after arriving in Fiji. It denies it is a cult - as well as allegations of abuse. However, members who have been able to return to South Korea have accused Ms Shin of confiscating their passports and holding them against their will. They have alleged the Church uses forced labour and issues ritual beatings so harsh that they have led to the death of one follower.
The Indian space agency Isro has shared the first images sent by the country's solar observation mission as it makes its way towards the Sun. Aditya-L1 lifted off on Saturday and is on a journey that will take it 1. 5 million km (932,000 miles) from the Earth - 1% of the Earth-Sun distance. It will take four months to reach its destination, Isro says. India's maiden solar mission came just days after the country became the first to land near the Moon's south pole. On Thursday morning, Isro shared two photographs taken on 4 September by a camera mounted on Aditya-L1.

China's exports have dropped for fourth month in a row as the  economy struggles with weak demand at home and abroad. Exports fell 8. 8% in August compared with a year earlier, while imports dropped 7. 3%, official figures show. However, those declines were not as bad as expected and an improvement on the previous month. China is facing several post-pandemic challenges, including a property crisis and weak consumer spending. There has been a slump in global demand for Chinese-made goods in the wake of coronavirus and the ongoing trade dispute with the US. It is having a major impact on a key source of growth for the country's economy.
Five teenagers will head to Singapore after reaching the world finals of an internationally renowned Formula 1 (F1) competition. Team Firestorm, of St John's College in Cardiff, are from the only school in Wales to make it to the final stage. They will race an air-powered car, that they have designed themselves, over a 20m (66ft) track. The annual event aims to promote the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) subjects. George Self, 15, is project manager of the team and described his role as someone who "oversees everything". "The style that we've adopted is [that] I co-ordinate, but we all feel like we can actually share ideas," he said. "I think that's important with creative projects. "
Japan on Thursday successfully launched a rocket with a moon lander at its fourth try this year, after previous attempts were foiled by bad weather. The lander, dubbed the "moon sniper", is expected to attempt a Moon landing in February if all goes well. Japan has twice failed to reach the lunar surface in the past year, amid setbacks for its space programme. It is bidding to become only the fifth country to land on the Moon, after the US, Russia, China and India. Two weeks ago, India made history when it successfully landed a spacecraft near the south pole of the Moon. The Japanese spacecraft is projected to land within 100m (328ft) of a location near the Shioli crater, on the near side of the Moon. It is expected to enter the Moon's orbit within four months. It will then spend a month circling the Moon before attempting a landing in February.
Myanmar's detained former leader Aung San Suu Kyi is being denied medical care despite her ill health, her son has said. Kim Aris said the junta ruling the country blocked prison authorities' request for his mother's "urgent care". Sources familiar with the matter told BBC Burmese severe toothaches have left the 78-year-old unable to eat. However, a junta spokesman said Ms Suu Kyi is in good health and gets check-ups from military and civilian doctors. Ms Suu Kyi has been detained since February 2021 when she was ousted by a military coup. In July, she was moved from prison to house arrest in the Burmese capital Nay Pyi Taw, but it is unclear where in the city she is being held. "To deny a sick prisoner access to recommended medical care is callous and cruel," Mr Aris said in a text message to BBC Burmese.
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
nan
